The Project Gutenberg EBook of Dorothy Dale in the West, by Margaret Penrose

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: Dorothy Dale in the West

Author: Margaret Penrose

Release Date: January 19, 2017 [EBook #54022]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DOROTHY DALE IN THE WEST ***




Produced by Stephen Hutcheson, MFR and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









[Illustration: SHE WALKED RIGHT UP TO THE PONYÅfS HEAD. _Dorothy Dale in
the West Page 61_]




  DOROTHY DALE
  IN THE WEST

  BY
  MARGARET PENROSE

  AUTHOR OF ÅgDOROTHY DALE: A GIRL OF TO-DAY,Åh ÅgDOROTHY
  DALE AT GLENWOOD SCHOOL,Åh ÅgTHE MOTOR
  GIRLS SERIES,Åh ETC.

  ILLUSTRATED

  NEW YORK
  CUPPLES & LEON COMPANY




BOOKS BY MARGARET PENROSE


THE DOROTHY DALE SERIES

  DOROTHY DALE: A GIRL OF TO-DAY
  DOROTHY DALE AT GLENWOOD SCHOOL
  DOROTHY DALEÅfS GREAT SECRET
  DOROTHY DALE AND HER CHUMS
  DOROTHY DALEÅfS QUEER HOLIDAYS
  DOROTHY DALEÅfS CAMPING DAYS
  DOROTHY DALEÅfS SCHOOL RIVALS
  DOROTHY DALE IN THE CITY
  DOROTHY DALEÅfS PROMISE
  DOROTHY DALE IN THE WEST


THE MOTOR GIRLS SERIES

12mo. Cloth. Illustrated.

Price per volume, 60 cents, postpaid.

  THE MOTOR GIRLS
  THE MOTOR GIRLS ON A TOUR
  THE MOTOR GIRLS AT LOOKOUT BEACH
  THE MOTOR GIRLS THROUGH NEW ENGLAND
  THE MOTOR GIRLS ON CEDAR LAKE
  THE MOTOR GIRLS ON THE COAST
  THE MOTOR GIRLS ON CRYSTAL BAY
  THE MOTOR GIRLS ON WATERS BLUE


  _Cupples & Leon Co., Publishers, New York_




  Copyright, 1915, by
  CUPPLES & LEON COMPANY

  DOROTHY DALE IN THE WEST




CONTENTS


  CHAPTER                                            PAGE

      I. A SURPRISE IS COMING                           1

     II. ÅgHOORAY FOR THE WILD WEST!Åh                   10

    III. THE ÅgTWO-FACEDÅh MAN                           17

     IV. TO CATCH THE MIDNIGHT EXPRESS                 24

      V. THE OLD LADY WITH THE BASKET                  33

     VI. ÅgTHE BREATH OF THE NIGHTÅh                     44

    VII. A NIGHT WITH A KNIGHT                         57

   VIII. THE NIGHT ADVENTURE CONTINUED                 72

     IX. WHAT FOLLOWED AN ELOPEMENT                    82

      X. THE MAN WHO WOULD HAVE DIED INDOORS           91

     XI. AT DUGONNE AT LAST                           101

    XII. ON THE ROAD TO HARDINÅfS                      109

   XIII. AT THE RANCH-HOUSE                           123

    XIV. ÅgTHE SNAKE IN THE GRASSÅh                     133

     XV. EXPLORING                                    141

    XVI. IN THE GORGE                                 147

   XVII. FLORES                                       154

  XVIII. OPHELIA COMES VISITING                       162

    XIX. ÅgÅfWAY UP IN THE MOUNTAIN-TOP, TIP-TOP!Åh      172

     XX. TWO EYES IN THE DARK                         182

    XXI. DOROTHYÅfS COURAGE                            192

   XXII. DOROTHY HEARS SOMETHING IMPORTANT            199

  XXIII. ÅgWHERE IS AUNT WINNIE?Åh                      207

   XXIV. THE CHASE                                    220

    XXV. A LITTLE MORE EXCITEMENT                     227

   XXVI. SAYING GOOD-BYE ALL AROUND                   238




DOROTHY DALE IN THE WEST

CHAPTER I

A SURPRISE IS COMING


ÅgHe, he, he!Åh giggled Tavia.

ÅgWhat _is_ the matter now, child?Åh demanded Dorothy Dale, haughtily.
ÅgThere are no ÅehesÅf in this lane. The road is empty before us----Åh

ÅgAnd the world would be, too, if it wasnÅft for the possible ÅehesÅf that
are to come into our lives,Åh quoth Tavia, with shocking frankness.

ÅgYou talk like a cave girl,Åh declared her chum. ÅgIs there nothing on
your mind but _boys_?Åh

ÅgYesÅfm! More boys!Åh chuckled Tavia. ÅgIt is June. The bridal-wreath is
in bloom. If ÅeIn spring the young manÅfs fancy lightly turns to thoughts
of love,Åf canÅft our girlsÅf fancies turn in June to thoughts of white
lace veils, shoes that pinch your feet horribly--and canÅft we dream of
hobbling up to the altar to the sound of MendelssohnÅfs march?Åh

ÅgHobble to the _haltar_, you mean,Åh sniffed Dorothy, with her best
suffragette air.

ÅgHow smart!Åh crowed her chum. ÅgBut you mustnÅft blame me for giggling
_this_ morning--you mustnÅft!Åh

ÅgWhy not? What particular excuse have you?Åh

ÅgThat shad we had for breakfast. Shad is as full of bones as CologneÅfs
shoes are of feet. I always manage to swallow some of them--the bones,
I mean, not dear Florida Water--RosemaryÅfs tootsies--and those said
bones are tickling me right now.Åh

ÅgHow absurd,Åh said Dorothy Dale, as Tavia went off in another Ågspasm.Åh
ÅgDo you realize that you are growing up, Tavia--or, pretty near?Åh

ÅgÅePretty near,Åf or Åenear prettyÅf?Åh asked Tavia, making a little face at
her.

ÅgBaiting your hook for a compliment, I see,Åh laughed Dorothy. ÅgWell,
you get none, Miss. I want you to behave. Think!Åh

Tavia immediately struck an attitude that seemed possible for only a
jointed doll to get into. ÅgBusiness of thinking,Åh she said.

ÅgSuppose anybody _should_ see you?Åh pursued Dorothy, admonishingly.

ÅgThen you _do_ expect the boys to motor in by this road?Åh cried Tavia.
ÅgSly Puss!Åh

ÅgNo, MaÅfam. I am not thinking of Ned and Nat--or even of Bob Niles.Åh

Tavia made another little face at mention of BobÅfs name. ÅgPoor Bob!Åh
she sighed. ÅgNo fun for him this summer. His father says he must go to
work and begin to learn the business--whatever that may mean. Bob wrote
me a dreadfully mournful letter. It almost tempted me to go to the same
town and get a job in his fatherÅfs office, and so alleviate the poor
boyÅfs misery.Åh

ÅgYou wouldnÅft!Åh gasped Dorothy.

ÅgGot to go to work somewhere,Åh decided Tavia. ÅgAnd I _hate_ housework
and cleaning up after a lot of children.Åh

ÅgBut just think! how proud your father will be to have you at the head
of the household. And remember, too, how much your brothers and sisters
need you.Åh

ÅgGoodness, Doro! You talk like the back end of the spelling-book--where
all the hard words are. And the hardest word in the whole vocabulary
is Åeduty.Åf DonÅft remind me of it while I am here with you at North
Birchlands.Åh

ÅgAnd think!Åh cried Dorothy, giving a little skip as they walked on.
ÅgThink! we are not a week away from dear old Glenwood School yet,
and to-day Aunt WinnieÅfs surprise is coming. Gracious, Tavia! I can
scarcely wait for ten oÅfclock.Åh

ÅgI know--I know,Åh said Tavia. ÅgIf your Aunt Winnie wasnÅft the very
dearest little gray-haired, pink-cheeked woman who ever lived, IÅfd
have shaken the secret out of her long ago. I just would! And we canÅft
even guess what the surprise is going to be like.Åh

ÅgGoodness! No!Åh gasped Dorothy. ÅgIÅfve given up guessing. I know it is
something perfectly scrumptious, but nothing like anything we ever had
before.Åh

ÅgI hope, whatever it is, that IÅfll be in it,Åh groaned Tavia.

ÅgI am sure you will be, or Aunt Winnie wouldnÅft have invited you here
to her home at just this time,Åh declared Dorothy.

They were walking down the shady road toward the railroad station
Ågkilling time,Åh before the family conference which had been called for
ten oÅfclock.

Nat and Ned White, DorothyÅfs cousins, had gone off in their auto, the
_Fire Bird_, on an errand, and the girls had an idea they might come
home by this route, and so pick them up.

ÅgHush!Åh cried Tavia, suddenly. ÅgMethinks I hear footsteps approaching
on horseback.Åh

ÅgThatÅfs no horse you hear,Åh Dorothy said. ÅgIt is somebody walking on
the bridge over the brook.Åh

There was a turn in the road just ahead and the girls could not see the
bridge. But in a moment they could descry the figure of a man striding
toward them.

ÅgThis must have been what you were he-heing for,Åh whispered Dorothy.

ÅgHow romantic!Åh was TaviaÅfs utterance.

ÅgWhat is romantic about a man coming up from the station?Åh

ÅgDonÅft you see his long, silky black mustache? And his long hair and
broad hat? Goodness! heÅfs a picture.Åh

ÅgYes. The stage picture of a villain--_Simon Legree_ type,Åh scoffed
Dorothy. ÅgThat red silk handkerchief sticking out of his pocket--and
the big diamond in his shirt front--and another flashing on his
finger----Åh

ÅgMy!Åh gasped Tavia, clasping her hands. ÅgHe might have stepped right
out of Bret Harte. Ah-ha! ah-ha! Jack Dalton! unhand me!Åh

ÅgHush, Tavia!Åh begged her chum. ÅgHe will hear you.Åh

ÅgOh!Åh exclaimed Tavia, suddenly disturbed. ÅgHeÅfs looking at us--and
heÅfs crossing over to this side of the road.Åh

ÅgWell, donÅft you look at him any more and--_weÅfll_ cross the road, too.Åh

ÅgDo you suppose he eats little girls?Åh queried Tavia, with a most
ridiculous air.

Dorothy felt as though she wanted to shake her chum. But then, she
frequently felt _that_ desire. The man was too near for her to speak
again, but the girls crossed the road suddenly.

The man stopped, half turned as though to approach them, and leered
at Dorothy and Tavia. He was not a large man, but he was remarkably
dressed. His black suit was rather wrinkled, as though he had been
traveling some time in it. The broad-brimmed hat gave him the air of
a Westerner, or Southerner. And his flashy appearance made him very
distasteful to Dorothy.

She made Tavia hurry on, and soon they reached the bridge themselves.
Tavia was ÅgravingÅh again:

ÅgThose wonderful eyes! Did you see them? Deep brown pools of
light--only one was green? Did you notice it, Doro?Åh

ÅgNo, I didnÅft. I told you not to look at him again. You might have
encouraged him to follow us.Åh

ÅgI wonder how it would feel to be a gamblerÅfs bride. I just _feel_
that heÅfs from the West and is a gambler, or a cowpuncher--or a
maverick--or----Åh

ÅgYou donÅft even know what a maverick is,Åh scoffed Dorothy.

ÅgYes, I do! A maverick steals cattle,Åh declared Tavia, quite soberly.

ÅgYou ridiculous thing! ItÅfs ÅerustlersÅf that steal cattle--or used to. A
ÅemaverickÅf is a stray calf without a brand.Åh

ÅgWell! he looked as though he had strayed---- Oh, Doro!Åh gasped Tavia,
suddenly. ÅgHeÅfs coming back.Åh

The girls had reached the bridge and had stopped upon it. The brown
water was gurgling over the stones, the birds were twittering in the
bushes, and the scent of the wild roses was wafted to them as they
leaned upon the bridge-rail.

It was a lovely picture, and Dorothy and Tavia fitted right into it.
But the picture did not suit Dorothy and Tavia at all when they saw the
black-hatted man round the turn in the road.

They felt just as though the picture needed some action. An automobile
with Ned and Nat in it, would have furnished just the life the girls
thought would improve the scene.

ÅgCome on!Åh whispered Dorothy. ÅgDonÅft let him speak.Åh

But it was too late to escape that. ÅgLittle ladies!Åh exclaimed the man.
ÅgYouÅfre not going to run away from me, are you?Åh

Tavia _would_ have run; only, as she confessed to Dorothy later, her
skirt Ågwas not built that way.Åh Now, however, Dorothy had to face the
man.

ÅgWhat do you want?Åh she asked, just as sternly as she could speak.

ÅgOh, now, little lady,Åh began the fellow, Ågyou mustnÅft be angry.Åh

Dorothy turned her back and seized TaviaÅfs arm. ÅgCome on,Åh she said,
with much more confidence in her voice than she actually felt.

ÅgNed and Nat will soon be along. Come!Åh

The girls began walking briskly. ÅgIs--is he going to follow us?Åh
whispered Tavia.

ÅgDonÅft you _dare_ look back to see,Åh commanded Dorothy, fiercely.

Either the black-hatted man was not very bold and bad, after all, or
DorothyÅfs remark about expecting the boys fulfilled its duty. He did
not follow them beyond the bridge.

ÅgOh, Doro! You canÅft blame me this time,Åh urged Tavia, as they hurried
on.

ÅgI do not believe the fellow would have dared speak to us if you had
not rolled your big eyes at him,Åh declared Dorothy, rather sharply.

ÅgOh, Doro! I didnÅft!Åh Then she began giggling again. ÅgIt is your fatal
beauty that gets us into such scrapes--you know it is.Åh

It was little use scolding Tavia. Dorothy was well aware of that.
She had Ågsummered and winteredÅh her chum too long not to know how
incorrigible she was.

For fear the man might still follow them, Dorothy insisted upon taking
the first side road and so walking back to Aunt Winnie WhiteÅfs home,
the Cedars, by another way. When they arrived the boys were there
before them.

ÅgHi, girls! where were you?Åh shouted Nat. ÅgWe looked for you along the
station road.Åh

ÅgDid you come right up from the station?Åh demanded Tavia, eagerly.

ÅgSure!Åh

ÅgDid you see a black-mustached pirate down there by the bridge, with a
yellow diamond in his bosom----Åh

ÅgIn the bridgeÅfs bosom?Åh demanded Nat.

ÅgOf the pirateÅfs shirt,Åh finished Tavia. ÅgSuch a mustache! He looked
deliciously villainous.Åh

ÅgAnother conquest?Åh grunted Nat, who never liked to see any fellow
Ågtagging about after Tavia,Åh as he expressed it, unless it was a
gallant of his own choosing.

ÅgHe followed Dorothy--and spoke to her,Åh declared Tavia, with
effrontery. ÅgAnd she spoke to him.Åh

ÅgSoft pedal! soft pedal, there, Tavia!Åh urged Ned, who had overheard.
ÅgWe know Dorothy.Åh

ÅgAnd we know _you_,Åh added his brother. ÅgYouÅfll have to unwind a better
string than that, Tavia. ThereÅfs a ÅeknotÅf in it--Dorothy did _not_.Åh

ÅgAsk her!Åh snapped Tavia, quite offended, and marched away toward the
house.

Dorothy at that moment appeared on the side porch. ÅgCome in, boys, do,Åh
she urged. ÅgItÅfs ten oÅfclock and everybody else is in the library. Your
mother is all ready to unveil the Great Surprise.Åh




CHAPTER II

ÅgHOORAY FOR THE WILD WEST!Åh


The family gathered in the library. Major Dale, DorothyÅfs father, sat
forward in his armchair, leaning his crossed hands and chin upon his
cane. Joe and Roger, DorothyÅfs brothers, fidgetted side by side upon
the leather couch.

Mrs. Winnie White, Major DaleÅfs sister, and her two big sons, Ned and
Nat, occupied chairs at the table. Dorothy and Tavia, their arms about
each othersÅf waists, were on a narrow settee in the fireplace, that was
banked with green, odorous Balsam boughs.

ÅgNow, children, I have a great announcement to make--two, in fact,Åh
said Aunt Winnie, playing with her lorgnette and smiling about at the
expectant faces. ÅgThe Major tells me to Åego ahead,Åf and I am going to
do so.

ÅgFirst of all, the Dale and White families have come in for a
considerable increase in this worldÅfs goods. In other words, the Major
and I have been left in partnership, the great Hardin Ranch and game
park, in Colorado.Åh

ÅgGame! Shooting! Wow!Åh ejaculated Nat.

ÅgRanch! Cattle! Ah!Åh added his brother.

ÅgSounds like a new college yell,Åh muttered Tavia in DorothyÅfs ear.

ÅgI was well aware,Åh continued Aunt Winnie, Ågthat old Colonel Hardin
contemplated making the Major a beneficiary of his will. The Colonel
was my brotherÅfs companion in arms during the war----Åh

ÅgAnd a right good fellow, too,Åh interposed DorothyÅfs father, heartily.

ÅgWhen Colonel Hardin came East several years ago, he spoke to me about
this intended disposition of his estate. He knew he could not live for
long. The doctors had already pronounced upon his case, and he had
no family, you will remember,Åh Aunt Winnie said. ÅgI had no idea he
proposed making _me_ a legatee, as well. But he has done so. The Hardin
property is a great estate--one of the largest in Colorado.Åh

ÅgHooray for the Wild West!Åh murmured Tavia, waving a handkerchief, yet
evidently suffering under some emotion beside extravagant joy!

ÅgThe Hardin property was first of all a quarter section of Government
land--one hundred and sixty acres--that the Colonel took up and proved
upon when he obtained his discharge from the army. Then he bought up
neighboring sections and finally obtained control of a vast, wild park
in the foothills adjoining his cattle range.

ÅgOf late years cattle have gone out and farming has come in. All
between the Hardin land and Desert City are farms. They need irrigation
for their developement.

ÅgColonel Hardin told me he held the water supply for the whole region
in his hands. It would cost a large sum, he said, to make the water
available for Desert City and the dry farming lands.Åh

ÅgHow is that, mother?Åh asked Ned, interested.

ÅgI do not just know?Åh

ÅgCanÅft they dig wells and get water?Åh demanded Roger Dale.

ÅgIt strikes me,Åh said the Major, chuckling, Ågthat in some of those
desert lands, they say it is easier to pipe it in fifty miles than to
dig for it. ItÅfs just as far under the surface, or overhead, as it is
latitudinally!Åh

ÅgI suppose it must be something like that,Åh agreed Aunt Winnie. ÅgI only
know that Colonel Hardin said when the City and the farmers could raise
the money necessary he stood ready to lease the water rights to them.
Such lease would add vastly to the income from his property.

ÅgNow, his lawyers have informed us that the will giving all this great
estate to the Major and me, has been probated, and that somebody must
come out there and look over the property and meet the people who want
the water, and all that.Åh

ÅgAnd somebody means _us_, mother?Åh cried Nat, joyfully.

ÅgUs young folks--yes,Åh said Mrs. White, smiling. ÅgThat is my second
announcement--and the larger part of the surprise, I warrant. We are
going to celebrate DorothyÅfs graduation by taking a trip West.

ÅgThe Major does not feel equal to the journey, because of his lameness;
I am to take over the property jointly in our names. I shall need you
four young people, of course, to advise me,Åh and she laughed.

ÅgSay! Say! what four young people?Åh demanded Roger and Joe in chorus.

ÅgWhy,Åh said their Aunt, Ågyou know somebody must remain to look after
the Major. _That_ duty, Joe, devolves upon you and Roger. Ned and Nat
are going with me, and of course Dorothy canÅft go without Tavia.Åh

ÅgHold me, somebody!Åh begged Tavia. ÅgI am going to faint with joy,Åh and
she fell weakly into DorothyÅfs arms. ÅgI was afraid I was going to be
left out,Åh she muttered.

Nat ran with an ink bottle in lieu of smelling salts, but Tavia waved
him away.

ÅgKeep your distance, sir!Åh she cried. ÅgThis is a brand new frock--and
they donÅft grow on bushes; at least, they donÅft in Dalton.Åh

ÅgYou bet they donÅft,Åh commented Ned. ÅgIf the present-day girlÅfs frocks
grew in the woods all the wild animals certainly _would_ run wild. The
bite of a chipmunk would give one hydrophobia.Åh

ÅgEvery knockÅfs a boost,Åh sniffed Tavia, who was very proud indeed of
her narrow skirt. ÅgI notice the boys are just as much interested in us
as ever, no matter what we wear. Why! Dorothy and I had a perfectly
scandalous adventure this morning----Åh

The maid appeared in the doorway at that moment and looked at Mrs.
White. ÅgWhat is it, Marie?Åh asked the lady.

ÅgA--a gentleman, Madam,Åh said the maid. ÅgAt least, itÅfs a man, Mrs.
White. And he wants to see you particular, so he says. He says heÅfs
come all the way from Colorado about getting some water. I donÅft
understand what he means.Åh

ÅgCrickey!Åh exclaimed the irreverent Nat. ÅgWhat a long way to come for a
drink.Åh

ÅgIt must be about this very thing we are speaking of,Åh said the Major,
starting.

The two girls had risen and gone to a window. They could see out upon
the porch.

ÅgGoodness, Doro!Åh gasped Tavia, grabbing her chum tightly. ÅgThatÅfs the
very man we met on the road this morning.Åh

We began to get acquainted with Dorothy Dale, and Tavia Travers, and
their friends in the first volume of this series, entitled ÅgDorothy
Dale: A Girl of To-day.Åh At that time Dorothy was more than three years
younger than she is to-day. Nevertheless, when her father was taken
ill, she undertook the regular publication of his weekly paper, _The
Dalton Bugle_, which was the familyÅfs main dependence at that time.

Later the family received an uplift in the world and went to live at
the Cedars, Aunt WinnieÅfs beautiful home, while Dorothy and Tavia
went to Glenwood School where, through ÅgDorothy Dale at Glenwood
School,Åh ÅgDorothy DaleÅfs Great Secret,Åh ÅgDorothy Dale and Her Chums,Åh
ÅgDorothy DaleÅfs Queer Holidays,Åh ÅgDorothy DaleÅfs Camping DaysÅh and
ÅgDorothy DaleÅfs School RivalsÅh our heroine and her friends enjoyed many
pleasures, had adventures galore, worked hard at their studies, had
many schoolgirl rivalries, troubles, secrets, and learned many things
besides what was contained in their textbooks.

In the eighth volume of the series, entitled, ÅgDorothy Dale in the
City,Åh Dorothy and Tavia spent the holidays with Aunt Winnie and her
sons, in New York. Aunt Winnie had taken an apartment in the city, on
Riverside Drive, and the girls had many gay times, likewise helping
Mrs. White very materially in the untangling of a business matter that
had troubled her.

ÅgDorothy DaleÅfs Promise,Åh the volume preceding our present story, deals
with DorothyÅfs last semester at Glenwood School, and her graduation.
Tavia, who is a perfect flyaway, but one with a heart of gold, is close
to her chum all the time, and the two inseparables had now, but the
week before, bidden the beautiful old school good-bye.

Dorothy Dale was a bright and quick-witted girl; the impulsive Tavia
was apt to get them both into little scrapes of which Dorothy was
usually obliged to find the door of escape.

Now, when the maid announced the black-mustached man, and the boys
departed by another door, Tavia drew Dorothy into the embrasure of a
curtained window, whispering:

ÅgLetÅfs wait. IÅfm _crazy_ to know what has brought such a brigandish
looking fellow here.Åh

ÅgBut it is not nice to listen,Åh objected Dorothy.

ÅgBut your aunt doesnÅft mind.Åh

Mrs. White smiled at the two girls as she saw them pop behind the
draperies. There was nothing private about the proposed interview.

The Major sat back in his chair while Aunt Winnie arose to meet the
stranger as the maid ushered him into the library.




CHAPTER III

THE ÅgTWO-FACEDÅh MAN


The boys were discussing the extent of Colonel HardinÅfs great estate
when Dorothy and Tavia joined them at the garage an hour later. The
possibilities of the vast cattle pastures and game preserves, walled in
by the natural boundary of the higher Rockies, appealed strongly to Ned
and Nat, and even to DorothyÅfs younger brothers.

ÅgAnd it was all begun by Colonel Hardin taking advantage of the
Homestead Law when he came out of the army. Too bad your father didnÅft
do that, Dorothy,Åh said Ned.

ÅgWhat _is_ the Homestead Law?Åh asked Dorothy.

ÅgI can tell you,Åh interposed Nat, quickly. ÅgNot just in the wording
of the law--the legal phraseology, you know,Åh he added, his eyes
twinkling. ÅgBut the upshot of it is, that the Government is willing to
bet you one hundred and sixty acres of land against fourteen dollars
that you canÅft live on it five years without starving to death!Åh

ÅgHow ridiculous!Åh scoffed Dorothy.

ÅgWhat is the use of asking these boys anything?Åh demanded Tavia, her
nose in the air. ÅgTheyÅfre like all other college freshmen.Åh

ÅgDonÅft say that, Miss,Åh urged Ned, easily. ÅgRemember that weÅfre
freshmen no longer, but sophs. Or, we will be so rated next fall.Åh

ÅgThen perhaps youÅfll know a little less than you have appeared to know
this past year,Åh said the sharp-tongued Tavia. ÅgAs juniors you will
know a little less. And when youÅfre seniors, youÅfll probably be still
more human--less like Olympic Joves, you know.Åh

ÅgCompliments fly when quality meets,Åh quoth Dorothy. ÅgDonÅft letÅfs
scrap, children. We can tell the boys something they _donÅft_ know.
WeÅfve got to get a hustle on, to quote the provincialism of the
locality for which we are bound--the wild and woolly West. A telegram
has been already sent to TaviaÅfs folks. We start West to-morrow.Åh

ÅgTo-morrow!Åh cried Ned and Nat, in surprise.

ÅgThe Mater must have changed her mind mighty sudden,Åh added Ned.

ÅgShe did,Åh said Tavia, nodding. ÅgOr, rather, we changed it for her.Åh

ÅgHow was that?Åh asked Nat. ÅgAnd say! what did the fellow want who came
so far for a drink?Åh and he grinned. ÅgWhatÅfs his name?Åh

ÅgMr. Philo Marsh,Åh said Dorothy, gravely. ÅgAnd a very shrewd, if not
an out-and-out _bad_ man.Åh

ÅgHul-lo!Åh exclaimed Ned. ÅgWhatÅfs happened? LetÅfs hear about it.Åh

ÅgYou should have stayed and seen the visitor,Åh said Dorothy.

ÅgHeÅfs a two-faced scamp!Åh declared Tavia, with emphasis.

ÅgRight out of Barnum & BaileyÅfs--eh?Åh asked Nat. ÅgOne of the greatest
freaks of the age. Two faces, no less!Åh

But Ned saw that something serious had happened. ÅgWhat is it, Dorothy?Åh
he asked.

ÅgI wish you had remained and seen that Philo Marsh,Åh said Dorothy Dale.
ÅgI--I think he is a bad man. I do not trust him at all.Åh

ÅgAnd good reason!Åh broke in Tavia, forgetting that she had first
exclaimed over the romantic appearance of the man with the silky black
mustache and the yellow diamond.

Then, eagerly, she went on to tell the boys of what had happened to her
and Dorothy on the road that morning.

ÅgWhy! the scamp!Åh ejaculated Nat, quite savagely.

ÅgBut that isnÅft _all_ the story?Åh queried Ned, turning to Dorothy.
ÅgWhat were you going to say about Philo Marsh?Åh

Dorothy at once told them how she and Tavia had hidden behind the
window draperies when Mr. Philo Marsh was announced, having recognized
him as he stood waiting on the porch.

ÅgAnd you should have heard him talk!Åh interrupted Tavia.

ÅgHe is a very smooth talking man,Åh went on Dorothy, seriously, Ågand we
could see father and Aunt Winnie were impressed.Åh

ÅgBut what did he _want_?Åh Ned demanded.

ÅgHe says he represents a committee of citizens of Desert City and the
farmers on that side of the Hardin estate. He had papers all drawn up,
ready to sign, leasing to him and his fellow-committeemen the water
rights on the Hardin place, and he wants father and Aunt Winnie to sign
up right now.Åh

ÅgBut they didnÅft?Åh cried Ned and Nat.

ÅgHe urged them to. He claims haste is necessary.Åh

ÅgWhy?Åh asked the older cousin.

ÅgHe wasnÅft just clear about _that_. I guess that is what made father
doubtful. But he was very persuasive.Åh

ÅgSay!Åh interrupted Nat. ÅgWhat about this water? If there is so much of
it on the Hardin place, doesnÅft it flow somewhere?Åh

ÅgThatÅfs a curious thing,Åh Dorothy said, quickly. ÅgIt seems this
water-supply is a stream called Lost River.Åh

ÅgLost River?Åh ejaculated Ned.

ÅgYes. ThereÅfs more than one like it out there, too. I guess this
particular Lost River has its rise on the estate somewhere. And without
flowing beyond the boundaries of the land Colonel Hardin has left to
us, it dives right down into a crack in the earth again.Åh

ÅgCrickey!Åh exclaimed Nat. ÅgSome river! I want to see that.Åh

ÅgIÅfve read of such things,Åh said his brother.

ÅgIt must be wonderful,Åh Dorothy said. ÅgYou see, they want father and
Aunt Winnie to let them turn the water into another channel. From that
channel they will pipe water to Desert City, while the surplus will be
carried by open ditches to the irrigated farms.Åh

ÅgAnd how about the water supply for the cattle pastures?Åh demanded Ned,
who, from the first, had shown a deep interest in the cattle end of the
business in hand.

ÅgOh, they say there is water in abundance,Åh Dorothy answered.

ÅgWell,Åh asked Ned, Ågdid that fellow get mother to sign up? _ThatÅfs_ the
important question.Åh

ÅgDo you think we would let her, after what we know about the fellow?Åh
retorted Tavia, indignantly.

ÅgI donÅft see how you girls knew much about him,Åh chuckled Nat. ÅgYou
simply did not like the cut of his jib, as the sailors say.Åh

ÅgWhat did you do to stop them?Åh asked Joe Dale, round-eyed. ÅgWalk right
in and give him away?Åh

ÅgThat would have been melodramatic, wouldnÅft it?Åh laughed Dorothy.

ÅgBut what did you do?Åh insisted Joe.

ÅgWhy,Åh said Tavia, Ågwe climbed out of the window--and I ripped my
skirt, of course!--and we ran around to the hall and sent the maid
in to call Mrs. White out. Then we told her about Philo Marsh--the
two-faced scamp! Why, to hear and see him in that library, youÅfd think
butter wouldnÅft melt in his mouth!Åh

ÅgWell, wouldnÅft it?Åh grunted Nat.

ÅgI guess the Major was suspicious, anyway,Åh chuckled Tavia, ignoring
Master Nat. ÅgAnd Mrs. White declared she would have to look over the
ground personally before she could make any decision.Åh

ÅgHe was in an awful hurry,Åh said Dorothy.

ÅgWhoÅfs in a hurry?Åh asked Ned, quickly.

ÅgThat Philo Marsh, as he calls himself. So we are going to start for
the West to-morrow, instead of next week.Åh

ÅgAnd what is this fellow whoÅfs come East here going to do?Åh asked Ned.

ÅgGoing back. Says heÅfll meet us at Dugonne. That is where we leave
the train. Oh, Aunt Winnie has already looked up our route, and the
time-tables, and all that,Åh Dorothy said.

ÅgWell, weÅfll be on hand to look out for Little Mum, and see that this
fellow doesnÅft Åedouble crossÅf her in any way,Åh said Nat, with assurance.

ÅgWe girls shall watch him, too,Åh Tavia declared. ÅgI believe heÅfs a
regular Åebad manÅf--like you read about.Åh

ÅgShouldnÅft read about such things,Åh advised Dorothy, laughing.

ÅgI guess we four can hedge Little Mum about so that no wild and woolly
Westerner will trouble her,Åh Ned said, with gravity.

But only time could prove whether that was so, or not.




CHAPTER IV

TO CATCH THE MIDNIGHT EXPRESS


The _Fire Bird_ looked like an express truck--or so Nat said. They had
loaded up the boysÅf auto with more than a fair share of the baggage.

ÅgBut just the same, you girls have got to find room in here,Åh declared
Ned. ÅgNat and I must have somebody to chin to while weÅfre driving over
Hominy Ridge. They say there are ÅehaÅfntsÅf in the woods, and weÅfd be
afraid to go alone.Åh

ÅgPoor Åfittle sing!Åh crooned Tavia. ÅgDoro and I know just how scared you
are. But weÅfll go with you--providing you can find us room.Åh

ÅgWeÅfll make room,Åh said Nat. ÅgMother will have to carry some of the
baggage in her car. There is no use in putting the last camel on the
strawÅfs back!Åh

ÅgJoe and Roger have begged to go along,Åh Dorothy said.

ÅgWell, theyÅfre excess baggage, too,Åh answered Nat. ÅgTheyÅfll have to go
in the other car.Åh

It was the evening following the June day on which Aunt Winnie had
divulged her Great Surprise. The intervening hours had been very, very
busy for the girls.

It was arranged that the party should go by auto to Portersburg to
catch the midnight express on the P. B. & O.

Dorothy and Tavia--as well as Mrs. White--had made exceedingly swift
preparations for this journey. Of course, Ned and Nat did not have much
to get ready.

ÅgWish I were a boy,Åh groaned Tavia.

ÅgIÅfve heard you express that wish a thousand times,Åh declared Dorothy.

ÅgThis is the thousand-and-wunth time then! Look at how easy they have
it, Doro! All they have to do is put a clean collar and a toothbrush in
their pockets, and start for a tour of Europe!Åh

It was a long journey over the forest-covered ridge to Portersburg.
They started at nine oÅfclock so as to be sure to be on time at the
railway station. The chauffeur who drove Mrs. WhiteÅfs machine would
chain the cars together and bring them--with Joe and Roger--back to the
Cedars, after seeing the tourists off for the West.

Dorothy kissed the Major good-bye. ÅgMy little CaptainÅh he still called
her. Major Dale was very proud of his daughter.

They got away at last, the _Fire Bird_ in the lead. There would be no
moon until after midnight, so they had to depend entirely upon the
headlights for the discovery of any obstruction in the road.

Nat was under the wheel and he had insisted upon Tavia sitting beside
him. Naturally Ned was glad to get Dorothy to himself in the tonneau.
It was a tight squeeze for the latter couple, for the motor car _was_
overburdened with baggage.

ÅgAre you comfortable, Doro?Åh shouted Tavia, turning to look at her chum.

ÅgJust as comfortable as I can be with the end of NatÅfs dress-suit case
poking me in the back, and a bundle of umbrellas right across my poor
shins. Oh! I did not dream it would be so uncomfortable.Åh

ÅgOur dreams seldom come true,Åh declared Tavia, sentimentally.

ÅgDonÅft know about that,Åh said Nat. ÅgYou know, a couple of tramps were
talking about the same thing. One says: ÅeIsnÅft it strange how few of
our youthful dreams come true?Åf And the other fellow answers back: ÅeOh,
I dunno. I remember when I used to dream of wearing long pants, and now
I guess I wear Åfem longer than anybody else in the country.ÅfÅh

ÅgBetter Åftend to your business, boy, and stop cracking jokes,Åh advised
Ned.

ÅgIÅfll see that he doesnÅft run us up a tree,Åh promised Tavia,
confidently.

The _Fire Bird_ swiftly passed out of the neighborhood with which
the young people were familiar and struck into the road leading to
Portersburg. It was a fairly good auto track, but had never been oiled.
Therefore, there were Åghills and hummocks,Åh as Tavia said, Ågin great
profusion.Åh

ÅgOh! _oh!_ OH!Åh she gasped, in crescendo, as the car bounced and jarred
over some of these Ågthank-you-maÅfams.Åh ÅgDid you _ever_ see such a
hubbly road, Doro?Åh

ÅgI donÅft see much of this one,Åh confessed Dorothy.

The forest shut the road about so thickly that beyond the headlightsÅf
glare the way looked like a tunnel. Occasionally, some small, night
wandering animal, scurried across the track.

ÅgThereÅfs a rabbit!Åh ejaculated Tavia. ÅgI wonder what he thinks this
auto is?Åh

ÅgThe Car of Juggernaut,Åh said Dorothy. ÅgLucky he escaped.Åh

They were going down a hill. Suddenly Nat threw out the clutch and
braked hard. The horn likewise uttered a stuttering warning.

A ray of light flickered upon some object directly in the path of the
flying car. It was impossible to stop and the road was too narrow for
Nat to swerve aside and in this way escape the collision.

ÅgLow Bridge!Åh he shouted, and they all crouched down. The next instant
the car struck the creature standing in its path.

ÅgA deer!Åh yelled Ned, as the car came to a jarring stop, some yards
beyond the point of collision.

He hopped out and ran back to see if the poor animal was really dead.
His motherÅfs car meanwhile halted where the deer lay beside the road.
The _Fire Bird_ had thrown the creature some distance away, and it was
quite dead, its neck being broken.

ÅgKilling game out of season is a misdemeanor, Nat,Åh said his brother,
returning to the automobile. ÅgLucky you are going to get out of the
state to-night. The game warden might be after you.Åh

ÅgI donÅft think it is a thing to laugh over,Åh said Tavia. ÅgThe poor
deer!Åh

ÅgThank you,Åh Nat said. ÅgI never expected to hear you call me by such a
tender name.----Åh

ÅgDonÅft flatter yourself, Mr. Nat!Åh snapped Tavia, scrambling out of the
front seat and joining Dorothy in the tonneau. ÅgI donÅft want to risk
being in front if you are going to run down all the livestock in the
country.Åh

ÅgItÅfs too bad to leave perfectly good venison behind,Åh Ned said. ÅgI
suppose he was dazzled by the lights. You must have a care how you
drive, Nathaniel. Mother says so.Åh

ÅgHuh! I couldnÅft see the deer until we were right on top of it.Åh

ÅgI know Nat didnÅft mean to,Åh said Dorothy, the peacemaker. ÅgIt _is_
awfully dark.Åh

Nat only grunted, but he drove more slowly. The deer had been actually
hypnotized by the lamps; Nat did not want to play the same rough joke
on another.

ÅgHuh!Åh he muttered to his brother. ÅgIf the law had been off and weÅfd
come up this way hunting deer, we wouldnÅft have gotten within a mile of
one!Åh

ÅgLife is full of disappointments--just like that,Åh chuckled Ned,
turning so that the two girls could hear him. ÅgThere was the old farmer
who saw something in the clothing store window that kept him marching
up and down before it for an hour, looking frequently at his watch.

ÅgFinally he went inside and demanded of a salesman: ÅeWhatÅfs your time?Åf
ÅeTwenty minutes past five,Åf says the salesman. ÅeThatÅfs what I make
it,Åf says the farmer, Åeand IÅfll take them pants,Åf and he pointed to a
ticket in the window which read: ÅeGiven Away at 5.20.Åf But _he_ was
disappointed, too.Åh concluded Ned.

ÅgHow ridiculous,Åh said Dorothy. ÅgOh! hereÅfs the end of the woods. IÅfm
so glad.Åh

ÅgItÅfs the end of this piece,Åh said Ned. ÅgBut thereÅfs more ahead.Åh

It was much lighter when they came out into the farming lands, and Nat
could speed up his engine a little. Behind the _Fire Bird_ coughed the
other car. They met nobody, nor overtook any vehicle. This was a lonely
road by night. They were still a long distance from Portersburg, and it
was after eleven oÅfclock.

ÅgYouÅfd better get a wiggle on, boy,Åh declared Ned. ÅgWe donÅft want to
miss that train.Åh

ÅgAnd I _do_ want to miss any other deer that may be loafing about this
right of way,Åh grumbled his brother.

They flew past a farmhouse where a dog tugged at his chain and almost
barked his head off at the two automobiles. A wall of forest loomed
up before them again. It was fortunate that the darkness beyond the
lamplight made Nat reduce speed.

Up heaved a disturbing figure beside the road. Nat applied the brakes
in a hurry once more. The beast stepped right into the radiance of the
lamplight and then--the automobile struck it!

Everybody screamed--including the object battle-rammed! ÅgAnother deer!Åh
shrieked Tavia. But the bellow that replied made her realize at once
that she was wrong. No deer ever bawled like that!

ÅgItÅfs a cow,Åh said Ned. ÅgCrickey, boy! youÅfll slaughter all the animals
in the state.Åh

ÅgThat cow isnÅft hurt,Åh growled Nat, Ågor she wouldnÅft bawl so.Åh

The other automobile stopped in the rear and Aunt Winnie was anxious to
know what had happened. Ned was already out of the _Fire Bird_, trying
to discover the whereabouts of the cow and the extent of her injuries.

ÅgSomething doing back there at the farmhouse,Åh warned the chauffeur of
Mrs. WhiteÅfs car. ÅgYou boys will be deep in trouble in a minute.Åh

They could see lights in the windows, and now heard a banging of
doors. A harsh voice began to shout commands, and a waggling lantern
approached across the fields.

Ned had found the cow. She was leaning up against the roadside fence,
and one horn was hanging by a thread of tissue, in a drunken looking
manner over her eye. Otherwise she seemed to be unhurt--only surprised.
The varnish of the car had suffered more than the cow.

When the farmer arrived he was very angry.

ÅgIÅfll fix you city fellers fer this. IÅfm a constable. Ye air all
arrested!Åh

His dress was haphazard. Over his coarse nightshirt he had drawn his
trousers, and he was barefooted. But he had not forgotten his star of
office, and he carried a locust club as well as the lantern. He fixed
himself in the road directly in front of the _Fire Bird_ and demanded
fifty dollars.

ÅgI could buy cows like that skinny old thing for fifty dollars a
dozen,Åh grumbled Ned.

ÅgYouÅfll pay me fifty for this here caow, or thÅf whole on ye will march
ter jail at Hacktown.Åh

ÅgYour cow is perfectly good,Åh suggested Tavia, Ågall except one horn.
And that horn serves no good purpose on a domestic animal. Most farmers
dehorn their cattle anyway. I think this man owes us about fifty cents.Åh

Nat began to chuckle at that, and the farmer was not at all pleased.

ÅgYe gotter fork over fifty dollars, or go to Hacktown anÅf see the
Jestice of the Peace.Åh

ÅgBut weÅfre in a hurry,Åh said Ned.

ÅgThatÅfs what they all say,Åh chuckled the farmer.

ÅgYou had no business to allow your cattle to run loose in the road,Åh
cried Ned.

ÅgThink not, eh, young man?Åh retorted the man. ÅgYouÅfd better read aour
county ordÅfnance on cattle. DonÅft hafter fence aour farms no more.Åh

ÅgI bet,Åh growled Ned to the girls, Ågthat the old scoundrel just set
this crow-bait of a cow like a trap for any automobilist who might come
by. Goodness! I hate to pay that fifty dollars.Åh




CHAPTER V

THE OLD LADY WITH THE BASKET


Time was flying and Mrs. White was becoming anxious. ÅgDo pay the man,
Ned, and let us go on. Of course, the cow is not worth so much----Åh

ÅgWhy, mother, itÅfs a miserable little thing,Åh began Nat; but the farmer
burst in with a lot of threats as to what he would do if the money was
not immediately forthcoming, and Nat subsided.

ÅgIt is an imposition, Mrs. White,Åh warned her chauffeur. ÅgIÅfll go with
him, if he likes, and tell the judge about it.Åh

ÅgIÅfll pull you all,Åh threatened the farmer, boisterously, Ågif you donÅft
fork over the money for my caow--yes, I will, by Jo!Åh

ÅgIf he talks fresh to mother,Åh growled Nat to Ned, Ågwe ought to take
away his tin star and club and throw him into the ditch.Åh

ÅgNo use making a bad matter worse,Åh said Ned.

ÅgIt is unfair,Åh Dorothy said, warmly. ÅgFifty dollars is a lot of
money. CanÅft we postpone our trip and go to court with this man?Åh

ÅgGoodness, Dot!Åh exclaimed her aunt, who heard this. ÅgOur berths are
engaged upon that train. We positively cannot wait here. Of course the
cow isnÅft worth so much as this man asks----Åh

At that moment a dilapidated figure shuffled into the radiance of the
automobile lights. It was an ancient darkey, with kinky gray wool, and
he took off his ragged hat as he asked:

ÅgEbeninÅf, genmen anÅf ladies. Is yoÅf seed anythinÅf ob my cow? She done
strayed erway agÅfin, anÅf IÅfs powerful anxious ter recover her--ya-as,
suh!Åh

ÅgAnother cow!Åh groaned Nat. ÅgThe owner of that pet deer will be around
next.Åh

ÅgWhat kind of a cow was it?Åh asked Tavia, giggling.

ÅgJesÅf a cow, MaÅfam,Åh said the old darkey. ÅgJesÅf a ordÅfnary ornery cow,
MaÅfam. EbeninÅf, MarsÅf Judson,Åh he added, seeing the farmer for the
first time. ÅgHas _you_ seed my cow?Åh

ÅgNaw, I ainÅft,Åh snapped the farmer.

Here Dorothy Dale suddenly broke into the inquiry meeting. ÅgDid your
cow have a big white patch on her left shoulder, and is she otherwise a
red cow?Åh asked the girl.

ÅgYa-asÅfm. That suah is my cow.Åh

ÅgTurn your light on that one against the fence, Ned,Åh commanded
Dorothy. ÅgNow look, sir,Åh she added, to the old negro. ÅgIs that your
cow?Åh

ÅgSuah is!Åh declared the darkey, gladly. ÅgDas my Sookey-cow. Law-see!
She done broke her horn. I wisht she bruk two on Åfem; den she couldnÅft
hook herself tÅfrough de parstur fence no moÅf.Åh

ÅgWell! what do you know about that?Åh demanded Tavia.

ÅgThis constable ought to have his badge taken away,Åh grumbled Nat.

Aunt Winnie was a most timid lady, but she was angry now. ÅgYou shall
be reported for this, sir, just as soon as I get back from the West,Åh
she promised the farmer. ÅgGive the colored man five dollars, Ned. He
deserves something for showing us what this other man is.Åh

The old darkey was tickled enough to accept a five dollar note for the
loss of the cowÅfs horn. The creature was not really hurt, and everybody
was satisfied save the constable-farmer who had over-reached himself.
He dared say nothing more about arresting the automobile party, and
the two cars soon got under way again and shot off along the road to
Portersburg station.

There was no further adventure on the way. They arrived at the station
with five good minutes to spare. The town was asleep, but the agent
was in his office with the tickets for Mrs. WhiteÅfs party and the
coupons for the Pullman berths.

They were to have a section to themselves, and an extra berth besides.
Dorothy was to occupy this extra berth, which proved to be an upper.

Everybody else aboard the car was asleep and the porter made up their
berths at once. ÅgI _do_ so hate to half undress in the corridor of a
car,Åh grumbled Tavia. ÅgItÅfs as bad as camping out.Åh

ÅgBut we pay good money for the privilege,Åh said Dorothy. ÅgI wonder why
we are always so easy--we Americans?Åh

ÅgOur fatal good nature. ThatÅfs it!Åh cried Tavia.

Dorothy had a hazy idea that somebody in the berth beneath her was
restless. Then she fell asleep, roused only now and then by the
stopping and starting of the train. At seven she was wide awake,
however, and as the train was still going at full speed, she crept down
from her high perch and started for the ladiesÅf room at the end of the
car.

But suddenly a hand was stretched out for her and the person in the
lower berth whispered:

ÅgI say, Miss! I say!Åh

Dorothy turned to see a little old lady, in a close, black bonnet with
the strings untied, but otherwise fully dressed. It was plain she had
gone to bed in all her clothing the night before.

ÅgCan a body git up, Miss?Åh whispered the worried old creature. ÅgMy
goodness me! I been useter gittinÅf up when the fust rooster crows; this
has been the longest night I ever remember.Åh

ÅgWhy, you poor dear!Åh returned Dorothy, warmly. ÅgOf course you can get
up. Come with me and IÅfll help you tidy yourself for the day. You must
feel all mussed up.Åh

ÅgI do,Åh admitted the old lady, feelingly.

She came after Dorothy, but the latter saw that she bore with her a
covered basket, the cover being tied close with bits of string.

ÅgYou need not be afraid of leaving your lunch basket in the berth.
Nobody will take it,Åh Dorothy said.

ÅgI--I guess IÅfll keep it by me,Åh said the old lady, with a timid smile.

Dorothy was able to make the old lady comfortable, and she found out
several things about her while the porter arranged their berths. She
was a Mrs. Petterby, and had lived all her life long (she was over
sixty) in the little mill town of RandÅfs Falls, in Massachusetts.

This was the very first time the old lady had ever been ten miles from
the house where she was born. She had lived alone in her own house for
the last few years, her husband and all her children but one being dead.

ÅgMy baby, heÅfs out West. IÅfm a-going to see him,Åh declared Mrs.
Petterby. ÅgHe sent me money for ticket and all, long ago; he told me to
put it in the bottom of the old teapot, where IÅfd be sure to know where
it was, and then I could start for Colorado any time the fit tuk me.

ÅgDid seem day bÅffore yisterday, as though IÅfd got to see my baby again.
He was difÅfrent from the other children--sort oÅf wild and hard to
manage. He had a flare-up with his dad and went West.

ÅgBut there ainÅft a mite oÅf harm in my baby--no, MaÅfam! AnÅf so I tell
Åfem. His father said so himself bÅffore he died. He warnÅft like the rest
oÅf the children, so his father didnÅft understand him.

ÅgHeÅfs doinÅf well, he writes. Gets his forty-five dollars evÅfry month,
and sends me part. Of course, I donÅft need it; I got it all in the
RandÅfs Falls Bank. But I kepÅf out this ticket money, like he said;
and--here I be!Åh and she cackled a soft little laugh, and smiled a
transfiguring smile as she thought of the surprise she was going to
give Ågher baby.Åh

She was going to Dugonne, the very town where Dorothy and her friends
were to leave the train. So the girls sort of adopted the little old
lady. But they could not find out what was in her basket.

Tavia was enormously curious. ÅgI saw her dropping something through a
crack into the basket,Åh she whispered to Dorothy. ÅgShe was feeding it.Åh

ÅgNonsense!Åh exclaimed her chum.

ÅgYou see. ItÅfs no lunch basket. ItÅfs something alive.Åh

ÅgA dog?Åh suggested Dorothy.

ÅgMaybe a cat.Åh

ÅgOr a parrot?Åh again said Dorothy.

ÅgOr a rabbit.Åh

ÅgIt couldnÅft be a canary, I sÅfpose?Åh asked Dorothy.

ÅgOr a pet goldfish?Åh giggled Tavia.

ÅgHow ridiculous!Åh returned the other girl.

Everybody went to breakfast when it was announced, save Mrs. White. She
had a Ågrailroad headache,Åh and lay back in her seat with closed eyes
and an ice-pack upon her forehead. But Dorothy thought she ought to
have something to Ågstay her stomach.Åh

ÅgYou know,Åh she said to Tavia, Ågthis car will be taken off and we will
not be able to get even a glass of milk for her before noon.Åh

Mrs. Petterby overheard this, and she blushed and whispered: ÅgI got one
oÅf them bottles that keeps things hot or cold, as you want Åfem. You get
some milk off the ice, and then it will be all ready to have the egg
broke into and shaken up when your auntie wants it, by and by.Åh

ÅgThatÅfs nice of you!Åh cried Dorothy, and proceeded to call the waiter
and order the cold milk.

ÅgBut whereÅfll you get an egg--a real fresh egg, I mean?Åh sniffed Tavia.
ÅgNot on a dining-car.Åh

ÅgThatÅfs so!Åh groaned Dorothy. ÅgAnd Aunt Winnie is _so_ particular about
her eggs. She can always tell if an egg is the least bit stale.Åh

The old lady leaned forward again, and once more the pretty pink flush
suffused her withered cheek. She was a keen-eyed, birdlike person, and
her manner was timid like a birdÅfs.

ÅgIf--if you donÅft mind waiting about an hour, I shouldnÅft be surprised
if I--I could supply the fresh egg,Åh she said.

ÅgYou?Åh gasped Tavia, amazed.

ÅgYou know where we can buy one, you mean?Åh queried Dorothy.

ÅgOh, you wonÅft have to buy one,Åh declared Mrs. Petterby. ÅgIÅfd be glad
enough to give it to you.Åh

ÅgBut who has fresh eggs on this train?Åh demanded Tavia.

ÅgI guess nobody has them to sell, dearie,Åh said the little old lady,
smiling. ÅgBut in about an hour I can get one.Åh

ÅgDo--do you think sheÅfs just right, Doro?Åh whispered Tavia, on the sly.

Dorothy did not know. It sounded very peculiar to her. But the little
old lady seemed quite in her right mind, and she went back to the
Pullman, still clinging to her basket.

That mystery furnished the girls and Ned and Nat with subject matter
for an endless discussion. They guessed at its contents as everything
from a white rat to a jewel-box, or a root of horseradish that Nat
declared he believed she was taking with her from her garden, to
transplant on her sonÅfs ranch. ÅgHis horses will like it, you know,Åh
said Nat, seriously.

ÅgYes,Åh agreed his brother, Ågon their oysters. Horseradish is very good
as a relish with raw oysters.Åh

ÅgAnd of course they rake oysters right out of the streams and ponds
in Colorado,Åh sniffed Tavia, with a superior air. ÅgWas anything ever
crazier?Åh

Dorothy went to sit beside Mrs. Petterby again. The old lady was
smiling contentedly. ÅgI guess IÅfll stay as much as a week with my
baby,Åh she declared to Dorothy. ÅgI hope I wonÅft be homesick before the
weekÅfs up.Åh

ÅgBut it will take you almost a week to get there, and a week to
return--and you intend to stay in Colorado only a week?Åh

ÅgI declare, child! I donÅft believe I could stand it longer. I donÅft
think I could stand furrinÅf parts--not at all. RandÅfs Falls,
Massachusetts, is good enough for me.Åh

There was a movement in the basket. Dorothy was sure of it. And a sort
of crooning noise. Dorothy looked her amazement and curiosity--she
could not help it.

ÅgThere! there!Åh said the old lady, softly, and tapping the basket. Then
she looked aside at the girl and whispered:

ÅgDonÅft you tell that conductor. They told me that I couldnÅft take her
with me unless I crated her and put her in the baggage car. But IÅfll
show Åfem!Åh

ÅgWhat is it?Åh breathed Dorothy. ÅgOh! I wonÅft tell.Åh

ÅgThere! your auntie can have her fresh egg in a minute or two now. I
know Ophelia.Åh

ÅgOphelia?Åh gasped Dorothy.

ÅgYes. ThatÅfs her name. I gave it to her when she was a little bit of a
chicken.Åh

ÅgA hen!Åh exclaimed the amazed Dorothy.

ÅgYes. SheÅfs a regular pet--and not much more than a year old. She was
the only one left of a brood that my old Blackie brought off last May
was a year ago,Åh said Mrs. Petterby.

ÅgI couldnÅft afford to have old Blackie nussinÅf just one chicken,Åh she
pursued, calmly. ÅgSo I brought Ophelia up by hand. She was just as
cunning as she could be.

ÅgShe sat on my shoulder when I ate breakfast, and sheÅfd eat her share
of johnny-cake and sausages, too--yes, MaÅfam! Then sheÅfd take a nap
sometimes, in my lap, when I sot down in my rocker by the kitchen
window.

ÅgAnd when she got to be a good sized pullet and I was lookinÅf for her
to begin to lay pretty quick, I declare if she didnÅft hop up into my
lap and lay her first egg.Åh

ÅgMy!Åh exclaimed Dorothy, in appreciative wonder.

ÅgI left my flock in the care of my next door neighbor; but I knowed
Ophelia would be lonesome for me.

ÅgSo,Åh concluded the little old lady, ÅgIÅfm a-takinÅf her through
unbeknownst to the conductor. DonÅft you tell! And now--there!Åh

She thrust her hand under one flap of the covered basket. There was a
little rustling sound, a seemingly objecting croak, and out came the
old ladyÅfs hand with a white, clean and warm egg.

ÅgI expect sheÅfs gettinÅf sort of broody,Åh said Mrs. Petterby, dropping
the egg into DorothyÅfs hand. ÅgSheÅfs beginninÅf to think of settinÅf anÅf
tryinÅf to raise a fambÅfly. ThatÅfs all _she_ knows about it--poor thing!

ÅgWell, thereÅfs your auntÅfs egg, child.Åh




CHAPTER VI

ÅgTHE BREATH OF THE NIGHTÅh


The girls and Mrs. WhiteÅfs sons were vastly amused by the egg incident.
Aunt Winnie thankfully drank her egg and milk, but her boys joked about
the production of ÅgOpheliaÅh being so quickly Ågswallowed up.Åh

ÅgAnd why didnÅft the old lady bring along Hamlet?Åh demanded Nat. ÅgThe
Prince of Denmark would have found life in a Pullman endurable, I
fancy. He was a philosophical old shark.Åh

ÅgSpeaking of eggs,Åh Ned said, ignoring his brotherÅfs irreverent
observation about the Melancholy Dane, Ågspeaking of eggs----Åh

ÅgWell! speak, I prithee!Åh said Tavia.

ÅgWhy, there was a chap performing tricks of legerdermain one night, and
he took eggs from a high hat, as usual. In his ÅepatterÅf he interpolated
a remark to a wide-eyed small boy who sat down front.

ÅgÅeSay, sonny, your mother canÅft get eggs without hens, can she?Åf he
said to the kid.

ÅgÅeYes, she can,Åf replied the boy.

ÅgÅeHow does she do it?Åf chuckles the conjurer.

ÅgÅeShe keeps ducks,Åf says the kid.Åh

ÅgGood! good!Åh quoth Nat, applauding. ÅgIf you hadnÅft told it, Ned, I
would.Åh

ÅgAh-ha!Åh cried Tavia. ÅgYou boys have been reading the same joke-book,
and have gotten your wires crossed.Åh

ÅgGoodness, Tavia! DonÅft. Such slang as you use!Åh

The train was bearing them rapidly and smoothly toward the West. The
girls and Ned and Nat enjoyed this sort of traveling immensely. At the
rear of the train was a fine observation platform, and the four young
folk got more benefit of the chairs there than any of the travelers.

The prospect in part was lovely. They liked, too, to sit there as the
train roared through the smaller towns where there was no stop. And
it was nice when they swept over the rolling prairies and crossed the
mid-western rivers on the long bridges.

The stops at the larger cities were never long; then the train would
fly on again, reeling off the miles at top-speed. The second night they
did not mind sleeping in the berths. And Dorothy helped Mrs. Petterby
get ready for bed so that she felt more comfortable.

ÅgBut it does seem awful resky,Åh she sighed. ÅgSuppose there should be a
smash-up--anÅf me without my skirt on!Åh

There _was_ a smash-up the next day, but fortunately the train in which
Dorothy Dale rode was not in the accident. Two freight trains went into
each other some ways ahead of the express, and spread themselves all
over the right of way. It would take some time to clear the mess up so
that the express could pass; therefore the latter was stopped at a very
pleasant Illinois town and the conductor told the young folk they would
have at least two hours to wait.

ÅgGoody-good!Åh exclaimed Tavia. ÅgLetÅfs run and see if we can get some
candy at a decent price, Doro. The candy-butcher aboard this train is a
highway-robber.Åh

ÅgI can beat that for a suggestion,Åh Nat said. ÅgWhy not find a place
where we can get something beside this buffet stuff to eat. I havenÅft
the heart to eat all I want to in the dining-car.Åh

ÅgWhy not?Åh asked Dorothy.

ÅgIt costs so much.Åh

ÅgCome on,Åh agreed Ned. ÅgWeÅfll go foraging.Åh

ÅgBe sure you get back in time, children,Åh ordered Aunt Winnie.

But she expected Dorothy to keep her wits about her, whether the rest
of them did or not. Near the railroad station there was nothing that
appealed to Dorothy and Tavia--no restaurant, at least. But up a clean,
bright little side street from the public square they saw a small,
white painted house, with green doors and green window frames. Over the
one big window beside the open door was a sign that read:

  ORIENTAL LUNCH ROOM

ÅgThat looks nice,Åh said Dorothy.

ÅgAnd look at that dear, old, _clean_ colored Mammy!Åh gasped Tavia.

On the platform before the little restaurant was a large colored woman
with a crimson bandana on her head, a spotless dress and white apron,
and her sleeves rolled up to her fat elbows.

ÅgI bet she can cook,Åh quoth Ned, with assurance.

ÅgWeÅfll give the Oriental a whirl,Åh agreed Nat.

But just as they were crossing the street to go to the place, Tavia
suddenly exclaimed: ÅgOh! thereÅfs somebody in there.Åh

ÅgWell, what of it?Åh asked Ned.

ÅgItÅfs hardly big enough for us. LetÅfs wait till that man comes out. I
donÅft like his looks, anyway. He has his hat on,Åh declared Tavia.

They all saw the man in question. He was a black-browed and
broad-hatted stranger, and he sat at a table in the little eating
place, staring out through the window with a frown on his brow. He was
not an attractive looking man at all.

ÅgI bet he has a bad conscience!Åh exclaimed Nat.

ÅgOr indigestion,Åh chimed in his brother.

ÅgHe wonÅft eat us,Åh said Dorothy, doubtfully. ÅgIf we do go in----Åh

ÅgI say, Mammy!Åh cried Tavia, to the smiling colored woman. ÅgDo you do
the cooking?Åh

ÅgÅfDeed anÅf I do, Missie,Åh declared the woman. ÅgAnÅf I got de freshesÅf
catfish dat eber come out oÅf de ribber. AnÅf light beatenÅf biscuit--anÅf
coÅfnpone, anÅf all de odder fixinÅfs.Åh

ÅgSounds good to me,Åh said Nat, smacking his lips.

ÅgBut canÅft we have the place to ourselves?Åh complained Tavia. ÅgIf that
man was only gone!Åh

ÅgYoÅf mean Cunnel Pike?Åh whispered the colored woman. ÅgHe comes yere
befoÅf. HeÅfs er-gwine out on dat train wotÅfs stalled down yander----Åh

ÅgThatÅfs the train weÅfre going out on,Åh Tavia declared. ÅgLike enough
heÅfll stay here till it goes.Åh

ÅgBut we can eat in there if he is present,Åh said Dorothy, again. She
knew just how stubborn Tavia was when she got an idea in her head.

ÅgWeÅfll get him out! IÅfll tell you,Åh gasped Tavia, suddenly.

ÅgHow?Åh demanded the others, in chorus.

ÅgNo, I wonÅft. Only Nat. IÅfll tell _him_. You can order the meal, Ned,
and while it is being cooked weÅfll fix it so that horrid man will
leave. Come on, Nat.Åh

Nat went off with her. The others were doubtful of her scheme, but they
were hungry. So Ned instructed the colored woman as to the repast and
then he and Dorothy sat down on the steps to wait for developments.

Meanwhile Tavia led Nat back to the main square of the village. ÅgRun,
get me a telegraph blank from the station,Åh she ordered, and Nat,
without question, did as he was bade.

Tavia quickly wrote a message and addressed it to ÅgColonel Pike,
Oriental Lunch Room,Åh with the name of the town appended. ÅgNow,Åh she
said to Nat, ÅgI dare you to send this message,Åh and her eyes danced.

Nat read it through once, looked puzzled, and then read it twice and
grinned--the grin expanding as the full significance of the joke
penetrated his mind.

ÅgCrickey-Jiminy!Åh he exclaimed. ÅgBut if they tell him?Åh

ÅgTelegraph operators are not supposed to tell. Instruct this one not to
do so, Nat. Now, I dare you!Åh

ÅgYou canÅft dare me,Åh boasted Nat, and hurried back to the station. When
he returned they strolled on to the Oriental Lunch Room once more and
rejoined Ned and Dorothy.

ÅgNow! whatever have you been doing, Tavia?Åh demanded Dorothy.

Tavia could not help giggling. ÅgJust you wait and see,Åh she said.

ÅgI hope you didnÅft let her do anything very bad,Åh Dorothy said to Nat.

ÅgI helped her do something mighty smart,Åh returned her cousin, looking
with admiration at pretty Tavia.

Just then a boy with a Western Union cap came up and went into the
little restaurant. ÅgSay!Åh he demanded of the black-browed man. ÅgAre you
Pike?Åh

ÅgAm I _what_?Åh asked the man, in a hoarse voice.

ÅgCunnel PikeÅfs the name,Åh said the boy. ÅgAnd right at this restaurant.Åh

ÅgOh! a telegram?Åh demanded the man, in surprise. ÅgWell, thatÅfs my
name,Åh and he put his hand out for the envelope.

ÅgSign here,Åh said the boy, and after he had gotten the signature in his
book he gave up the message and went out.

ÅgLook!Åh gasped Tavia, clinging to DorothyÅfs hand.

All four of the young people watched covertly the man behind the
window. They saw him tear open the envelope and read the message
curiously. Then his heavy, dark face changed and curiosity was blended
first with amazement and then with something very like fear.

He started to tear the message up. Then he got to his feet and his face
began to pale. Dorothy and the others watched him in wonder and some
alarm.

Finally the man grabbed his hat brim and pulled it down over his eyes.
He strode out of the place and down the steps, without looking at the
boys and girls, and started straight for the railroad station.

As he went his trembling fingers relaxed and the telegraph message
dropped at DorothyÅfs feet.

ÅgWhat do you know about that?Åh whispered Nat. ÅgWe sent him that
message.Åh

ÅgWhat?Åh demanded Dorothy, and snatched it up.

She uncrumpled the sheet of yellow paper and read in the crooked
letters of the old typewriter which the local operator used:

  ÅgCome home at once. All is forgiven.Åh

ÅgTavia Travers!Åh cried Dorothy. Then she burst into laughter, and so
did Ned when he had read the slip of paper.

ÅgI believe I have done a very good thing,Åh claimed Tavia, quite
seriously. ÅgNo wonder that old Colonel Pike looked like a Åegrouch.Åf
He had trouble on his mind, and now weÅfve sent him home to get it all
straightened out.Åh

ÅgOh, Tavia!Åh groaned Dorothy again.

ÅgIÅfd give a good bit to be at his home--if he goes there--and see what
happens,Åh Ned said, when he had ceased laughing.

ÅgAnyway,Åh grinned Nat, Ågthe Åebogey manÅf is gone and we can take
possession of the Oriental Lunch Room.Åh

Which they forthwith proceeded to do. The old colored woman served them
a delicious meal, and added to their enjoyment of it by her comments
upon many things, not the least of which was her wonder as to Ågwhat tuk
Cunnel Pike out oÅf yere so suddent like.Åh

The gay little party left the restaurant in good season and rejoined
Aunt Winnie aboard the train. They saw nothing more of the man called
ÅgCunnelÅh Pike. Another train had just gotten away for the East and
Tavia said:

ÅgI tell you he has gone home. We did a very good action--probably have
changed the current of his whole life.Åh

ÅgLike to peek over the shoulder of the Recording Angel, Tavia, and see
whatÅfs marked down against you for that telegram--eh?Åh chuckled Ned.

ÅgWell!Åh declared Dorothy, ÅgI hope when he gets home they will be as
glad to see him as that message intimated.Åh

ÅgWell, I shouldnÅft worry and get wrinkled!Åh shrugged Tavia.

ÅgI guess weÅfll never know about that,Åh said Ned.

ÅgItÅfs like one of those serial stories in the papers, Åecontinued in our
nextÅf--and you always miss your copy of the next number,Åh said Nat.
ÅgIÅfve a dozen different plots Åehanging fireÅf in my mind that I never
will get to know how they finish up.Åh

ÅgLearn to read books, then,Åh advised his brother, Ågand stop littering
up your mind with such useless stuff.Åh

ÅgWow!Åh exclaimed Nat. ÅgYou talk like Professor Grubber. Oh, I say! Did
you hear of that one they had on Old Grubs in class one day? He was
discussing organic and inorganic kingdoms. Says he:

ÅgÅeNow, if I should shut my eyes--so--and drop my head--so--and remain
perfectly still, you would say I was a clod. But I move. I leap. Then
what do you call me?Åf

ÅgAnd Poley Gray says, quite solemnly, ÅeA clodhopper, sir.Åf It got them
all,Åh concluded the slangy Nat. ÅgEven Old Grubs himself had to laugh.Åh

After that two-hour hold-up of their train the party found that the
speed at which they traveled was greatly increased. Each engineer in
turn tried to make up a bit of that handicap, and the travelers were
tossed about in their berths that night in rather a disturbing manner.

Mrs. Petterby would not have gone to bed at all had it not been for
DorothyÅfs encouragement; she would have sat up with her pullet in her
lap, and her bonnet firmly tied under her chin.

ÅgIÅfm ever expectinÅf to have this train crash right into another,Åh said
the old lady. ÅgAnd I want to be ready for it.Åh

ÅgDo you think youÅfll be any more ready sitting up than you will be
lying down, dear Mrs. Petterby?Åh Dorothy asked.

ÅgSeems as if I would,Åh returned the old lady. ÅgI tell you what! I
shaÅfnÅft come out to see my baby no more. I shall tell him that. And I
dread the going back.Åh

ÅgPerhaps you will like Colorado so much that you will want to stay.Åh

ÅgWhat? And never see RandÅfs Falls, Massachusetts, again?Åh exclaimed
Mrs. Petterby, in horror. ÅgI--guess--not.Åh

ÅgI hope we shall see her baby when she meets him,Åh Doro said, tenderly.
ÅgAnd I hope heÅfs all she expects him to be.Åh

ÅgA cow-puncher at forty-five a month,Åh sniffed Nat.

ÅgOh! but cowboys are awfully romantic,Åh said Tavia, quickly.

ÅgLook out for her, Dot,Åh begged Ned. ÅgYouÅfll have to blindfold her to
get her past any cow-punching outfit we may meet. I can see that.Åh

On the following day when the train crossed the first ranges and
they beheld little bunches of five hundred or a thousand head of
Åglonghorns,Åh Tavia went into raptures.

The four young folk from the East remained upon the observation
platform most of the time. Even after supper the girls went back there
to view the prairies in the gloaming.

There was a distant light here and there, like a low-hung star; but
there were few towns, or even settlements. Suddenly the train slowed
down and they saw several switch-targets. Then they passed the ghostly
fence of a large corral, and they ran by a barn-like, darkened station
and freight sheds.

The train stopped altogether. The girls saw the flagman seize his
lantern and run back to set his signal. ÅgCome on!Åh exclaimed Tavia.
ÅgHeÅfs left the gate open.Åh

She gave Dorothy no time to decide, but ran lightly down the steps
herself and sprang onto the cinder path. Dorothy followed.

ÅgListen!Åh whispered Tavia, seizing her chumÅfs hand, tightly. ÅgHear the
night breathe.Åh

There did seem to be a vast, curious sound to the inhalation of breath.

Dorothy listened to the sound with a wonder that grew. It was not the
engine exhaust. It was a sound like nothing she had ever heard before.

ÅgSee! thereÅfs another big corral beyond the station,Åh Tavia said. ÅgCome
on!Åh

She led Dorothy down the platform, and out upon the softly giving earth.

The headstrong Tavia went directly toward the high fence. The regular,
rhythmic breathing seemed to surround them.

Of a sudden, something scrambled against the fence before them. There
was a bump against the bars, and two shining eyes transfixed them.

The engine gave a single long-drawn shriek. Instantly the car wheels
began to turn, while from the creature inside the corral fence came a
bellow.

ÅgGoodness me!Åh shrieked Tavia. ÅgItÅfs cattle--the corralÅfs full of
cattle.Åh

ÅgThat isnÅft the worst of it!Åh returned Dorothy, grabbing her hand and
starting to run. ÅgWeÅfre being left behind, Tavia Travers!Åh




CHAPTER VII

A NIGHT WITH A KNIGHT


ÅgWell! I wouldnÅft talk as though it had never happened before to
anybody,Åh said Tavia, at last. ÅgWhy! even we, Doro, have been left
behind before.

ÅgStill, I grant you, we were never left before behind a fast express,
which was speeding your aunt and the boys away from us so rapidly that
we will be miles and miles behind before they discover our absence.Åh

ÅgIf, however, they learn that we are behind before they reach----Åh

Åg_Stop!_Åh commanded Dorothy, dropping down beside the track and
covering her ears. ÅgIf you say that again, IÅfll certainly do something
to you.Åh

They had followed the train down the long platform, screaming to the
flagman to pull the signal cord. He had not heard them. He had merely
closed the gate and gone into the car.

Here Dorothy Dale and Tavia Travers were, deserted at this un-named
prairie station, where--to all appearances--there was not a soul.

ÅgAnd if anyone _is_ here, I expect I shall be scared to death,Åh
admitted Tavia, sitting down beside her chum.

It was so dark that only the vastness of the earth and sky was made
known to them--and that but vaguely. Stars twinkled above their heads,
but seemingly so high that, as Tavia complained, they did not seem like
Ågthe stars at home, back East!Åh

Sitting facing the railroad tracks, they saw no lights but the switch
targets. There was no tower here, nor did there seem to be any life
at all about the railroad property. Why the express train had stopped
here, to tempt them to disembark, the girls could not imagine.

They were sitting close up against the great corral fence. The deep
breathing of the herd was like the distant, low notes of an organ; the
girls were not now interested in the manifestation of the presence of
such a great number of cattle. But the cattle were curious.

Another came and snorted behind them, and Dorothy and Tavia scrambled
up in a hurry. ÅgThey sound just as savage as bears,Åh declared Tavia.

ÅgI donÅft see why they have all deserted the cattle,Åh murmured Dorothy.
ÅgI should think there would be a night watch.Åh

ÅgAnd all the railroad people have deserted, too.Åh

ÅgOh, dear!Åh said Dorothy. ÅgWe canÅft even send a telegram after the
train to tell Aunt Winnie we are all right.Åh

ÅgBut that wouldnÅft be true,Åh said Tavia, shivering. ÅgWe are _not_ all
right.Åh

ÅgWe-ell,Åh said her friend, slowly. ÅgI donÅft expect there is anything
here to hurt us.Åh

ÅgThatÅfs all right. Maybe there isnÅft. But I never _did_ like to be
alone in a strange place. I want to be introduced to folks.Åh

ÅgMaybe there is a cowboy camp near----Åh

ÅgBully! letÅfs find it!Åh ejaculated Tavia.

ÅgBut you wouldnÅft know the cowboys. TheyÅfd all be strange men.Åh

ÅgWell! Cowboys are so romantic,Åh urged Tavia. ÅgLetÅfs look.Åh

ÅgYou can use your eyes as well as I can,Åh sighed Dorothy. ÅgBut I must
say the prospect for finding anybody in this half darkness is not very
alluring.Åh

They started, following the line of the corral fence away from the
station. Dorothy was convinced there was no telegraph operator there,
and the barn-like building looked more dreary and threatening than did
the open prairie. So they were glad to get away from it.

The fence seemed unending. Occasionally a beast faced them, glaring
with eyes like hot coals, and pawing the earth. But the fence looked
strong.

They were not booted for walking, however, and the ground was uneven.
So they hobbled on very slowly.

Tavia seized DorothyÅfs arm. ÅgOh! whatÅfs that?Åh

ÅgNow, donÅft you begin scaring me,Åh commanded Dorothy. ÅgOh!Åh

ÅgDidnÅft I tell you?Åh

ÅgA man on horseback.Åh

They could see him between them and the skyline. He was riding slowly,
and riding toward them. The girls hugged close to the fence and their
dark traveling frocks were not noticeable.

The horseman drew nearer. The girls, clinging together, saw that he
wore a wide hat and sheepskin chaps that looked like a womanÅfs divided
skirt, they were so wide.

His pony pranced and snorted, doubtless scenting the girls. But the man
spoke a soothing word and did not even gather up the reins that lay
loose on the animalÅfs neck.

His voice had a pleasant, drawling tone to it. ÅgEasy, there, Gaby--yuh
shore ainÅft gettinÅf no thousand plunks er night for dancing yere--no,
MaÅfam! StanÅf still a moment, Gaby.Åh

Then a spark flared up and the girls knew the cowboy had been rolling
a cigarette and was now lighting it.

ÅgSh!Åh breathed Dorothy. ÅgWatch his face.Åh

The match flared up, held in the hollow of his hand. The yellow glare
of it fell full upon the cowboyÅfs face.

That was what Dorothy had waited for. She wanted to see what manner of
face it was before she spoke--_if_ she spoke at all.

It was a bronzed, beardless, rather reckless countenance; but there was
nothing bad in its expression, and if the features were not strikingly
handsome they were pleasant. The mouth and eyes laughed too easily,
perhaps; but Dorothy risked it. She walked right up to the ponyÅfs
surprised head.

ÅgPlease!Åh she said.

The match went out. So did the spark of the cigarette, as it dropped
from the manÅfs fingers.

ÅgJerusha Juniper!Åh gasped the man. ÅgI got Åfem!Åh

ÅgWill you please listen?Åh asked Dorothy.

ÅgA gal--and a gal from back East--shore! Why, yes, MaÅfam! IÅfll listen
tuh yuh,Åh said the amazed cowboy.

Just then Tavia joined her chum and the man muttered: ÅgThereÅfs two on
Åfem--Jerusha Juniper!Åh

ÅgPlease help us, sir,Åh pleaded Dorothy again.

ÅgI shore will, Miss,Åh declared the cowboy. ÅgBut yuh did tee-totally
sup-prise me--yes, MaÅfam!Åh

Tavia began to giggle. ÅgI guess youÅfre not used to meeting ladies
around here?Åh she questioned, saucily.

ÅgJerusha Juniper! I reckon we ainÅft; not around here.Åh

ÅgI didnÅft know, for sure,Åh said the wicked Tavia; Åghearing you take a
ladyÅfs name in vain so frequently, you know. Is she a friend of yours?Åh

ÅgWho, MaÅfam?Åh asked the puzzled cowboy, while Dorothy tugged at TaviaÅfs
sleeve.

ÅgÅeMiss Jerusha JuniperÅf--or is she a ÅeMrs.Åf?Åh

The man laughed heartily at that and urged his pony nearer to the two
girls.

ÅgWe see so few females out here we hafter talk about Åfem, and name
critters after Åfem, and all that.Åh

ÅgI see,Åh said Tavia, quite assured of herself now.

ÅgOh, dear!Åh interrupted Dorothy, anxiously. ÅgAll this isnÅft getting us
anywhere.Åh

ÅgJeru---- Well!Åh said the man. ÅgWhere do yuh want tuh go?Åh

ÅgWhy, weÅfve been left behind,Åh said Dorothy, and then she fully
explained their predicament.

The cowboy, who was a young fellow, grasped the situation at once.

ÅgYou wonÅft git even a slow train out oÅf yere before noon to-morrer,Åh he
said. ÅgAnd Åftwixt now and then youÅfd be mighty uncomfortable, I reckon.
There ainÅft nawthinÅf yere but a boardinÅf shack, anÅf there ainÅft a woman
ever stops thar only MizÅf Little, whose old man runs the shack and
keeps the corral yere.Åh

ÅgGoodness!Åh gasped Dorothy.

ÅgGracious!Åh gasped Tavia.

ÅgOh, theyÅfre nice folks, but they ainÅft fixed right to entertain
ladies,Åh said the man.

ÅgAnd we donÅft want to be entertained,Åh wailed Dorothy. ÅgWe want to get
on.Åh

ÅgShore you do,Åh granted the cowboy. ÅgNo other good train on this
road, as I say. If you follered by slow trains youÅfd never catch that
flyer--not in a dawgÅfs age.Åh

ÅgWhat _can_ we do, then?Åh demanded Dorothy. ÅgCanÅft we even telegraph?Åh

ÅgNow, IÅfll fix that for yuh, first of all,Åh declared the man. ÅgThe
operator lives at LittleÅfs shack. WeÅfll rout him out and make him tell
your folks on that train that youÅfll overtake Åfem at Sessions.Åh

ÅgBut how can we?Åh asked Dorothy.

ÅgSessions is a junction of this line and the old D. & C. Yuh see, I
know this country pretty well. IÅfm over yere for the Double Chain
Outfit right now, shipping cows, and I was startinÅf back to-morrer,
anyway. IÅfll git you ladies ponies, and weÅfll start for Killock
to-night.Åh

ÅgWhereÅfs Killock?Åh asked Dorothy, doubtfully.

The cowboy pointed vaguely across the prairie. ÅgRight over
thar--that-a-way,Åh he said. ÅgItÅfs on the D. & C. ThereÅfs a fast train
stops thar at five in the morning. If we make a pretty quick get-away
weÅfll easy make it in time, and youÅfll ketch your folks at Sessions.Åh

ÅgOh, that will be jolly!Åh cried Tavia.

ÅgBut, Tavia!Åh gasped Dorothy. ÅgHow can we ride--in these frocks?Åh

ÅgSide saddle?Åh queried her chum, doubtfully. ÅgWhy not?Åh

ÅgWeÅfd never be able to hang on,Åh groaned Dorothy, Ågwithout a proper
riding habit!Åh

Here the cowboy interrupted. ÅgThere isnÅft a ladyÅfs saddle in this neck
oÅf woods. But I can find easy mounts and easy saddles for you. AnÅf MizÅf
Little will let you have skirts. You can send them back with the ponies
from Killock.Åh

ÅgYou think of everything!Åh exclaimed Tavia, gratefully.

Dorothy Dale was doubtful. She had trusted the manÅfs face and his
manner, still----

ÅgCome on, now, to MizÅf Little,Åh said the cowboy, frankly. ÅgIÅfll rout
Åfem out and weÅfll be on the jog in half an hour, ladies.Åh

The manÅfs free and familiar way troubled Dorothy more than anything
else. Yet, she knew that this was the West and that western ways were
not eastern ways. And there was a woman they could talk to, at least!

So she and Tavia, hand in hand, followed behind the cowboy. He had
dismounted, but the track would not allow of their walking abreast. And
he made as slow progress in his high-heeled riding boots as the girls
did, over the rough way.

Their eyes were more accustomed to the path now, or else it was not so
dark. However, they could not have mistaken the bulk of the cowboy and
that of the pony, before them.

It certainly was a strange experience. Two eastern girls thrown
suddenly into a situation of this character! An unknown protector, an
unknown locality, and unknown adventures before them.

ÅgWhat an experience!Åh breathed the delighted Tavia. ÅgAnd heÅfs a regular
knight.Åh

ÅgIs he?Åh

ÅgA knight of the lariat,Åh whispered Tavia. ÅgItÅfs so romantic.Åh

ÅgI am glad you like it,Åh said Dorothy, grimly.

ÅgWhy! donÅft you, Dorothy Dale?Åh

ÅgI would give a good deal to be back aboard that train with Aunt
Winnie.Åh

ÅgNever!Åh cried Tavia.

ÅgAll right there, ladies?Åh threw back the ÅgknightÅh over his shoulder.
ÅgThereÅfs the light ahead.Åh

ÅgOh! we are perfectly all right,Åh said Tavia, with assurance.

Dorothy was not at all sure, so she said nothing.

In a few minutes they came to a long, low building. There was a dim
light shining through a window in the end of the shack.

The cowboy dropped his ponyÅfs bridle-rein upon the ground and the
well-trained animal stood still. The ÅgknightÅh knocked on the door and
at once a fierce voice asked:

ÅgWhoÅfs thar?Åh

ÅgLance,Åh said the man.

ÅgWell. I told you Number Eight was empty, Lance.Åh

ÅgI ainÅft goinÅf to stay, MizÅf Little.Åh

ÅgAw-right,Åh pursued the same gruff voice, which the girls could
scarcely believe was a womanÅfs. ÅgIÅfll let the nexÅf pilgrim thet comes
erlong have it.Åh

ÅgI gotter see yuh,Åh said the cowboy. ÅgGit up, will yuh?Åh

ÅgWhat yuh want, Lance?Åh

ÅgCome yere. LandÅfs sake! SÅfpose IÅfm talkinÅf for pleasure?Åh

A couch squeaked. There was immediately a heavy footstep on the
creaking plank floor. The girls were rather startled. They wondered if
the savage sounding female was coming to the door just as she got out
of bed?

But ÅgMizÅf LittleÅh had evidently been lying down dressed. When the door
opened she was revealed in a shapeless dark gown. Only, her head and
feet were bare.

She was a gigantic creature--a good deal bigger than the cowboy who had
befriended the girls. Dorothy saw at once that she had a very kindly
face, despite her masculine appearance.

ÅgI vow!Åh she said, starting. ÅgLadies with you, Lance?Åh

ÅgYep. And they want to git on to Killock to-night. TheyÅfll tell you all
about it. IÅfm goinÅf to rout out that thar key-pusher.Åh

ÅgHeÅfs in Number Six,Åh said Mrs. Little. Then to the girls: ÅgCome in.
Gals are yere erbout as often as angels--anÅf I ainÅft never hearn
_their_ wings yit.Åh

Dorothy and Tavia entered--yet not without some hesitancy. The room was
large, and almost bare of furnishings. There was a broad bed, and on it
Mrs. Little had been lying. But there was no other occupant of it, or
of the room.

There was a small cookstove, a chest of drawers, a clock on the shelf,
and a picture of Washington crossing the Delaware on the wall. One
rocker had a tidy on the back of it, but the other plain deal chairs
were entirely undecorated.

The woman herself, however, drew Dorothy DaleÅfs attention. She was very
curious as to what manner of creature she could be--this masculine and
gruff spoken female.

In the lamplight Dorothy had a better view of Mrs. LittleÅfs face. Mrs.
Little did not have a single pretty or attractive feature, but the girl
from the East would have trusted her with anything she possessed!

Mrs. Little looked closely into the faces of both girls. She saw
something shining in DorothyÅfs eyes.

ÅgWhy, chile!Åh she gasped. ÅgYou ainÅft reÅflly afraid, be yuh?Åh

Dorothy seized the big, hard hand the woman put out to her. There was
help in that hand--and comfort. Tavia appeared not to care, but Dorothy
Dale knew that her chum was just as much disturbed in secret over the
situation as she was herself.

In rather a breathless way Dorothy told Mrs. Little of the
circumstances leading up to their predicament, and her new friend
listened sympathetically. ÅgDonÅft that beat all?Åh was her comment. ÅgAnd
I expect your folks is scaret, too. But you do like Lance says----Åh

ÅgIs Lance to be trusted, Mrs. Little?Åh asked Dorothy, eagerly.

ÅgLance? Shore! Ef you was both my darters IÅfd trust yuh with Lance.
Men is tuh be trusted with gals out yere. They hafter be. Wimmen is
scurce--homes air far apart--a lone woman has a claim on a man in the
wild places that she donÅft have in cities. Shore!

ÅgThatÅfs what it is, Miss. It takes an out anÅf out vilyun to be mean
to a woman or a gal wÅfen there ainÅft a mite of protection for her
otherwise. Shore! Most western men, I Åflow, air to be trusted.Åh

But Dorothy and Tavia thought of Philo Marsh, and took this broad
statement with a grain of salt. Or was it, that Mr. Marsh, even, would
have been chivalrous under the present conditions?

Dorothy was satisfied that the cowboy called Lance was a man to be
depended upon. She had really believed in him from the start; now she
believed even more in Mrs. Little, who stood sponsor for him.

Almost at once Lance reappeared with a sleepy man whom he had evidently
gotten out of bed.

ÅgWrite your message, MaÅfam,Åh said the cowboy, Ågand this man will
send it. Make it reÅfl strong. WeÅfll ketch Åfem at Sessions by noon
to-morrer. They kin stop over anÅf wait a while for yuh.

ÅgTheir tickets will be good on the D. & C. IÅfve often done it myself.
And yuhÅfll all be in Dugonne to-morrer night, anyway, so it wonÅft
matter erbout your berth coupons.Åh

It was evident that Lance had traveled some and knew his way about. Now
he hurried away for the horses while Dorothy wrote the message to be
sent after the flying train. It was not yet an hour since Dorothy and
Tavia had left the observation car.

Fortunately Dorothy had her handbag with her, and the purse in it was
well supplied with money. She asked the operator to count the words of
the message, and paid him for it on the spot.

Meanwhile Mrs. Little had made coffee and she insisted upon the girls
having some and sampling her cake. When Lance came with the mounts he
was likewise regaled, standing in the doorway.

A chill wind was blowing off the prairie, but not a cloud was to be
seen. The sky was thickly speckled with stars.

ÅgYouÅfre going to have a right pleasant ride,Åh prophesied Mrs. Little,
producing two of her own voluminous skirts for the girls.

She helped them tuck up their own frocks neatly and arranged the skirts
about them after they were mounted.

ÅgEverybody rides a-straddle out yere,Åh said the good lady, laughing.
ÅgAnÅf yuh kin cling on better. Yuh got some ridinÅf tuh do bÅffore yuh
reach Killock. ItÅfs fifty mile.

ÅgNow, Lance, donÅft yuh be reckless. Ef anythinÅf happens tuh these gals
IÅfll be in yuh wool, anÅf no mistake!Åh

ÅgHuh! nawthinÅfs goinÅf tuh happen to them,Åh laughed Lance. ÅgHow erbout
_me_? I eat two slabs of that cake oÅf yourn, MizÅf Little, anÅf I expect
Gaby will bog right down with me inside of a mile, IÅfll be so heavy.Åh

ÅgGit erlong with yuh!Åh retorted Mrs. Little, used to the cowboysÅf rough
jokes. ÅgItÅfs better cake than that Chinaman makes you at the Double
Chain Outfit, I vow!Åh

After that they rode off into the night, with the Ågknight of the
lariat.Åh




CHAPTER VIII

THE NIGHT ADVENTURE CONTINUED


The little cavalcade had to cross the tracks and the crossing was
beside the telegraph office.

ÅgI wonder if he has caught Aunt WinnieÅfs train yet?Åh said Dorothy,
aloud.

ÅgWeÅfll see about that, Miss,Åh said Lance, the cowboy, and he pulled in
and shouted for the operator:

ÅgHey, Bill!Åh

The window opened and the frowsy head of the telegraph man appeared.

ÅgKetch Number Seventy yet?Åh asked the cowboy.

ÅgJust. At Massapeke. Your folks has got your message by this time,
ladies.Åh

ÅgOh, thank you!Åh cried Dorothy.

ÅgA thousand times,Åh added Tavia.

ÅgCome on,Åh said Lance. ÅgGooÅfnight, Bill!Åh

ÅgGooÅfnight!Åh responded the operator, and slammed down the window.

They rattled over the crossing and then the ponies set into an easy
trot, led by the cowboyÅfs Gaby.

Dorothy Dale and Tavia Travers had both learned to ride when they were
much younger. Indeed, Tavia had learned to ride bareback upon the
horses left out to pasture around Dalton, in the days when she was a
regular tomboy.

The action of these cow ponies was easy, and the girls enjoyed the
strange ride during the first few miles, at least. They had ridden with
divided skirts at home; therefore their present position in the saddle
was not as strange to them as it might have been.

But there were fifty miles to travel when they left Mrs. LittleÅfs. ÅgIt
looks like an awfully big contract,Åh admitted Tavia.

ÅgYuh ainÅft got tuh look at it all tuh once, Miss,Åh said Lance,
good-naturedly. ÅgYuh take it mile by mile, anÅf it ainÅft so far.Åh

ÅgThatÅfs so,Åh declared Tavia. ÅgI never thought of that.Åh Then to Dorothy
she whispered. ÅgIsnÅft he just splendid? And how sweetly he drawls his
words?Åh

ÅgNow, Tavia!Åh gasped Dorothy. ÅgIf you donÅft behave yourself----Åh

ÅgWhy, I am!Åh cried Tavia. ÅgI think you are too particular for anything,
Doro. DidnÅft that large _Little_ lady tell us he was perfectly all
right?Åh

Dorothy was being jounced around too much just then to make reply. But
she saw that Tavia had recovered completely from her ÅgscareÅh and was
looking for mischief.

Out on the open prairie the stars gave light enough for the girls to
see Lance better. The track was broader, too, and the trio continued
on, side by side, the cowboy riding between the two girls.

Lance was not a bad looking young man at all. Dorothy began to realize,
too, that he was nowhere near as old as she had at first supposed. His
out of door life had given him that air of maturity.

So, it troubled Dorothy when she saw that Tavia was determined to
ÅgbuzzÅh the cowboy.

ÅgAre you a really, truly cowboy?Åh the irrepressible asked, demurely.

ÅgWell, yuh might call me that, MaÅfam, though I wasnÅft borned to it like
some of these old-timers yuhÅfll meet out yere.Åh

ÅgThen you are not a native of the West?Åh

ÅgNow youÅfve said something, MaÅfam. I come from back East; but tÅfwas
quite some time ago--believe me!Åh

ÅgYou must have been very young when you came out here--to seek your
fortune, I suppose?Åh pursued Tavia.

ÅgTuh git clÅfar of my old manÅfs strap,Åh chuckled Lance. ÅgHe and I didnÅft
hitch wuth a cent. But he was a good old feller at that.Åh

ÅgAnd you never went back?Åh asked Dorothy, becoming interested herself.

ÅgNever got the time for it. Yuh see, Miss, it does seem as though a man
never gets caught up with his work. ThatÅfs so!Åh

ÅgI should think youÅfd be homesick--want to see your folks,Åh the
insistent Tavia said.

ÅgJerusha Juniper! My famÅfbly was right glad to git shet of me, I
reckon; all but my mother. But I reckon sheÅfs too old to travel out
yere, anÅf, as I say, itÅfs hard for a man like me to git time and money
both together for a vacation. I Åflow IÅfd like to see the olÅf lady right
well,Åh he concluded.

Scarcely had he spoken when a rattle of poniesÅf hoofs behind them
startled their own spirited mounts. The ponies tried to ÅgbreakÅh and
run, too, as they heard the rat-tat-tat of the hoofs approaching.

ÅgWhoa, thar, Gaby!Åh commanded Lance. ÅgAinÅft yuh got a bit oÅf sense?Åh
Then to Dorothy and Tavia he shouted: ÅgPull hard on them bits, ladies.
They got mouths like sheet-iron--anÅf that ainÅft no dream!Åh

The girls pulled their ponies in, as instructed. As they did so two
other ponies appeared beside them in the trail. The girls from the East
could identify the riders as a man and a girl.

ÅgJerusha Juniper!Åh yelled Lance, stopping Gaby from bolting with some
difficulty and swinging her across the path of the eastern girlsÅf
mounts, so as to halt them. ÅgJerusha Juniper! what yuh tryinÅf tuh do?
CominÅf cavortinÅf along the trail this a-way?Åh

ÅgIs that you, Lance?Åh asked the man.

ÅgIt shore is--anÅf two ladies,Åh said the cow-puncher, proudly.

ÅgDonÅft tell Åfem we come this way, Lance,Åh called a shriller voice,
which Dorothy knew must belong to the girl, as the couple passed and
urged their ponies to a gallop.

ÅgJerusha Juniper! is it you, Colt--and you, Molly Crater? IÅfll be
blessed! Tell on yuh? Reckon not--ef ColtÅfs finÅflly got up his spunk
tuh take yuh right from under the olÅf manÅfs nose, Molly.Åh

ÅgOh! what is it?Åh cried Tavia.

Lance began to laugh--and he laughed loudly, sagging from side to side
in his saddle.

ÅgÅfScuse me, MaÅfam!Åh he finally got breath to say. ÅgBut ef that ainÅft
thÅf beatenesÅf!Åh

ÅgMaybe it is,Åh said Tavia, with sarcasm. ÅgBut until you are a little
more explicit, Mr. Lance, I donÅft see how we can join in your hilarity.Åh

ÅgAinÅft it so?Åh drawled Lance, still bubbling over with laughter.

ÅgDo be still, Tavia!Åh exclaimed Dorothy, admonishingly. ÅgGive Mr.
Lance a chance to tell us.Åh

ÅgAnd that I shore will do,Åh chuckled the cowboy, as they jogged on
again. ÅgI plumb believe the whole county will laugh to-morrer--that is,
if Colt carries it through.Åh

ÅgCarries _what_ through?Åh demanded Tavia, sharply.

ÅgDid yuh see that feller anÅf gal?Åh began Lance, in his slow drawl.
ÅgThat thar is Jim Colt and Peleg CraterÅfs darter, Molly. PelegÅfs a
pizen critter as ever was; but MollyÅfs jest as sweet anÅf purty as a May
mawninÅf--anÅf thatÅfs goinÅf _some_.

ÅgWal, this here Jim Colt has been sparkinÅf on Molly for a dawgÅfs
age--yes, MaÅfam! That pizen critter, Peleg, done drove him off his
farm--PelegÅfs a nestor--time anÅf time agÅfin. AinÅft a single livinÅf
thing the matter with the boy; but Peleg donÅft wanter lose his
housekeeper. Works that Molly gal like a regÅflar slave.

ÅgWal! the last time, I hear, Peleg chased Colt with a shotgun, and
purtÅf nigh blowed the boy as full of holes as a colander.Åh

ÅgHow awful!Åh gasped Dorothy.

ÅgWhat larks!Åh was TaviaÅfs comment.

ÅgGuess the smell oÅf powder sort oÅf put spunk intuh Colt. HeÅfs got thÅf
gal tuh-night and theyÅfre racinÅf for a parson.Åh

ÅgTo get married?Åh cried Dorothy.

ÅgAn elopement?Åh was TaviaÅfs delighted cry.

ÅgShorest thing you know,Åh agreed Lance.

ÅgMy! IÅfd like to see them married,Åh cried Tavia.

ÅgAnd is her father following them, do you suppose, Mr. Lance?Åh asked
Dorothy Dale, anxiously.

ÅgEf he knows theyÅfve started you kin bet heÅfs after Åfem--hot foot!
Unless Colt throwed anÅf tied him fust,Åh added Lance.

ÅgMercy! is that somebody coming behind us now?Åh asked Tavia, delighted
at this entirely new source of interest.

But this was a false alarm. The three did ride faster, however,
although Lance warned the girls that the distance to Killock was too
far for them to hurry the ponies much.

ÅgThese yere cayuses air all tuh thÅf good,Åh declared the cowboy. ÅgBut
there ainÅft no use in runninÅf their leetle legs off right now. Somebody
else may wanter use Åfem after we git through.Åh

ÅgBut that eloping couple were tearing away as fast as they could go,Åh
complained Tavia.

ÅgI Åflow a shotgun in the rear will make a man ride fast,Åh chuckled
Lance.

ÅgArenÅft they going to the same town we are?Åh asked Tavia.

ÅgKillock? No, MaÅfam! ThereÅfs Parson Hedwith at Branch Coulie--Jerusha
Juniper! I bet they ainÅft even goinÅf thar,Åh ejaculated Lance, with
revived interest. ÅgHop erlong, Gaby! Push on, ladies. Ef yuh wanter see
thet thar marriage, mebbe we kin make it, after all. I bet they air
bound for Bill WhistlerÅfs.Åh

ÅgWho is he?Åh asked Tavia. ÅgSomebody like the blacksmith at Gretna
Green?Åh

ÅgNever hearn tell of _him_, MaÅfam; anÅf a blacksmith ainÅft qualified
tuh marry in this state. But Bill Whistler is. HeÅfs just been made a
Justice of the Peace.Åh

ÅgA ÅeSquireÅf!Åh cried Tavia. ÅgSoÅfs my father.Åh

ÅgWal, then, MaÅfam; you know he kin marry as slick as airy parson,Åh said
Lance. ÅgItÅfs for his house Colt and Molly air aiminÅf, I Åflow.Åh

ÅgOh, Mr. Lance!Åh cried Dorothy Dale, enthusiastic herself now, Ågis Mr.
WhistlerÅfs house on this road?Åh

ÅgIt shore is.Åh

ÅgCanÅft we stop and see them married?Åh

ÅgThatÅfs what I was thinkinÅf on,Åh declared the cowboy. ÅgI was ÅflowinÅf to
give the ponies a rest there, anyway. And weÅfll need it ourselves.Åh

ÅgLetÅfs hurry!Åh cried Tavia. ÅgMaybe we can catch up with that girl.Åh

The trio hastened forward. The girls were somewhat tired of riding, for
they had already been in the saddle two hours, but this new topic of
interest made them forget their weariness for the time.

A light suddenly flashed up on the prairie ahead. ÅgThatÅfs in BillÅfs
winder,Åh declared Lance. ÅgColt and the gal have got thar.Åh

ÅgOh, _do_ letÅfs hurry!Åh cried Tavia.

In their enthusiasm the girls urged on their little steeds. The ponies
quite took the bits away from Dorothy and Tavia during the last half
mile of the run, and they tore up to the low, slab-built house at a
rattling pace.

There was some disturbance in the house, and the door opened but a
crack. The window had already been shuttered.

ÅgWhoÅfs thar?Åh demanded a falsetto voice.

ÅgItÅfs Lance, tell Åfem, Bill,Åh called out the cowboy. ÅgHold back the
ceremony a minute. These yere young ladies from the East wants ter
stand up with Molly, and if Colt wants a best man, why, I reckon I kin
fill the bill. ThatÅfll make a grand, proper weddinÅf.Åh

ÅgCome in,Åh said the falsetto voice. ÅgAnd bar the door behind yuh. I
unÅferstanÅf this yere is a hasty job. They say PelegÅfs on the trail
behind Åfem.Åh

Lance was already helping Dorothy and Tavia to dismount. They were as
excited as they could be.

ÅgItÅfs just as though we were being chased by Indians, and this was a
blockhouse,Åh whispered Tavia to her chum.

The cowboy hustled the three ponies around to the shed back of the
house. Then he ran back and followed the girls into the open door,
shutting it quickly and dropping the bar into place.

ÅgShoot, Bill!Åh exclaimed the cowboy. ÅgWeÅfre all ready, I reckon.Åh

The girls were amazed at the appearance of the Justice of the Peace.
He was a huge man with bushy red whiskers which looked as though they
would fill a half-bushel measure. And the tiny, shrill, falsetto voice
that came from his mouth when he opened it, almost set Tavia into
hysterics.

ÅgStand up yere--git in line,Åh said the Justice, fishing out a book from
behind a littered couch. ÅgIÅfll marry yuh as tight and fast as airy
parson in the county.Åh

At the very moment he was beginning there came from without the thunder
of advancing hoofs. Everybody heard it. Molly Crater grabbed the
bridegroom (who was a good-looking young fellow) by the arm, and sang
out:

ÅgItÅfs pap and the sheriff!Åh

The next moment the horses arrived, and there came a thunderous knock
on the door of the slab house.




CHAPTER IX

WHAT FOLLOWED AN ELOPEMENT


ÅgTake my gun, Lance, and stand at the door,Åh commanded the solemn,
bewhiskered Justice. ÅgAinÅft nobody gwine tuh disturb this court while
in thÅf puffawmance of its duty. No, sir!

ÅgGit busy, folks! Ketch holt of hanÅfs,Åh and he proceeded to read
through the form made and provided for such occasions by the State
Judiciary, while Mr. Peleg Crater continued to hammer at the door.

Dorothy and Tavia marveled at the courage of Molly Crater, who actually
responded to the questions in unshaken voice while her angry father
shouted threats outside.

ÅgNow, by jinks!Åh exclaimed the Justice, throwing down the book and
saluting the bride with a kiss like the crack of a bullwhip, Ågyuh air
tied hard anÅf fast. LeÅfs see olÅf Peleg untie yuh.Åh

ÅgHeÅfs got a gun,Åh said the cowpuncher warningly, at the door. ÅgEf he
blows ColtÅfs head off the knot will be purty well busted--what?Åh

ÅgWal, IÅfll lend Jim my gun,Åh said the philosophic Justice. ÅgThen let
Åfem go to it.Åh

ÅgNo, sir-ree!Åh exclaimed the newly made Mrs. Colt. ÅgI wonÅft have my
husband and my father a-shooting at one another.Åh

ÅgPeleg means business, Molly,Åh said Lance.

ÅgSo do I,Åh declared the bride. ÅgIÅfd leave Jim right now ef he aimed a
gun at pap. Just as I left pap Åfcause he shot at Jim.Åh

Dorothy and Tavia were badly frightened. These people talked of the use
of lethal weapons in a most barbarous way. Even Tavia began to think
the West was more uncivilized than it was romantic.

ÅgThatÅfs a good, strong door,Åh squealed the bewhiskered Whistler. ÅgAnd
the window shutters are bullet-proof. We kin stand a siege. I got a
cyclone cellar, too.Åh

ÅgBut _we_ canÅft stay here!Åh cried Dorothy, in great distress.

ÅgThat is so, Doro. We have to catch that train,Åh agreed Tavia.

ÅgThereÅfs moreÅfn one train stops at Killock, Miss,Åh said Molly Colt,
_nee_ Crater, to Dorothy Dale. ÅgAnd pap will git tired and go away.Åh

ÅgNop,Åh said Lance, the cowboy. ÅgI promised to git these ladies to
Killock in time for the mawninÅf train, anÅf IÅfm goinÅf ter do it, or bust
er leg!Åh

ÅgAnd itÅfs after midnight now,Åh said Dorothy, looking at her watch.

ÅgYuhÅfll hafter slip out the back way, git yuh ponies, anÅf scoot,Åh
advised Whistler through his whiskers.

ÅgWeÅfll all light out that way,Åh said young Colt.

ÅgBut we donÅft wanter get these girls in any trouble,Åh said Mrs. Colt.

ÅgWeÅfll leave Åfem at once. Make for Branch Coulie. ThatÅfll toll your pap
off _their_ trail,Åh said her husband of five minutes.

Dorothy Dale, although she was much frightened by the situation, did
not lose her presence of mind. ÅgWhy donÅft you and your husband stay
here, Mrs. Colt?Åh she said, clinging to the older girlÅfs hand. Åg_You_
remain in the house--or in this cellar Mr. Whistler speaks of, while
Mr. Lance and Tavia and I slip out at the back and get away. Your
father will think we are you.Åh

ÅgThat idea is as good as gold,Åh declared Lance, admiringly. ÅgWhat the
little lady says goes, Bill. You agreed, Jim?Åh

ÅgAnd me, too,Åh said Molly Colt, when her husband nodded.

ÅgGo to it,Åh squealed Whistler in his funny voice.

Tavia nudged Dorothy, and whispered: ÅgYouÅfre crazy! youÅfll get us
shot.Åh

ÅgNot a bit,Åh said Lance, quickly, hearing her. ÅgOur ponies are as fresh
as can be now, while PelegÅfs is clean tuckered out. HeÅfs traveled
already three times as fur as we have--and he ainÅft been savinÅf
horseflesh, nuther, the state of mind heÅfs in. Believe me!Åh

ÅgBut the sheriff?Åh asked Tavia. ÅgWonÅft he arrest us?Åh

ÅgIf he wants my vote nexÅf year,Åh shrilled Whistler, Åghe wonÅft
interfere. HeÅfs only along to see fair play, I reckon.Åh

ÅgCome on, then,Åh cried Lance.

ÅgIÅfll keep Peleg at the door. Colt, you anÅf Molly slip inter the
cellar,Åh commanded the Justice of the Peace. ÅgPeleg will hear Lance and
these young ladies after they git started, and IÅfll sick him ontuh yuh.
He wouldnÅft ketch yuh in a week oÅf Sundays--anÅf I never seed that week
come around yit.Åh

The girls from the East had only time to kiss Molly Colt good-bye and
wish her happiness, when Lance hurried them out of the back door of the
slab house. They were both keyed up with excitement, but Lance did not
realize how troubled they were as he lifted them onto their respective
ponies, after cinching the saddles again.

ÅgAll ready?Åh whispered the cowboy. ÅgThen weÅfll start. IÅfll ride behind.
If the old goose does any shooting heÅfll aim at me, anyway--and none
oÅf these nestors kin shoot wuth a hang. You can see the trail, ladies?Åh

ÅgOh, yes,Åh replied Dorothy.

They rode out quietly, skirting a group of sheds, and struck into the
trail. The ponies were well under way before the angry farmer heard
them.

ÅgHeÅfs fell for it!Åh cried the cowboy. ÅgJerusha Juniper! Here he comes.
Let Åfem out, ladies. The ponies is fresh as jackrabbits.Åh

For perhaps two miles they heard the farmer hooting and yelling behind
them. But he did not shoot. Then the sounds of his pursuit abruptly
ended. The ÅenestorÅf had given up the chase.

ÅgI hope heÅfll not find his daughter and her husband until he gets over
his mad fit,Åh said Dorothy, anxiously.

ÅgThat mean man would never be decent,Åh said Tavia. ÅgBut wasnÅft it
exciting?Åh

ÅgColtÅfs goinÅf to take Molly a fur ways off,Åh said the cowboy. ÅgOld
Peleg will have plenty of time to simmer down afore he sees airy of Åfem
again.Åh

They rode on through the night and after a time Lance left the regular
trail. Dorothy was a bit worried by this move and asked him why.

ÅgIsnÅft there a chance of our getting lost, Mr. Lance?Åh

ÅgNo, MaÅfam. This trail goes a roundabout way, and we can cut off nigh
ten miles by striking right Åfcross country. If there was high water we
couldnÅft do it, but the streams are nigh dry.Åh

ÅgIt looks so dark,Åh said Tavia. ÅgHow can you ever find the way?Åh

Then he showed them the North Star and other planets and combinations
of stars by which the plainsman casts his course at night, as the
sailor does at sea.

They came to several water-courses, unbridged; the ponies splashed
through the shallow water, and then broke into their easy gallop again.

Dawn came, tripping over the prairie behind them, soon catching and
passing the three riders, and rushing on to lighten the deep shadows of
the mountains far, far in advance. All night these mountains had masked
the western horizon like a threatening cloud.

Dorothy had dreamed of sunrise on the prairie; but she had not supposed
it half so wonderful as it was!

The hem of DawnÅfs garment was tinged with opal light, which quickly
changed to faint pink--then deep rose--then an angry saffron which
spread like a prairie fire all along the eastern horizon.

She could not help looking back at it to the detriment of her riding.
But her pony was surefooted, and she came to no harm.

The glow increased. They were bathed in the light, and quickly the
first level rays of the sun chased their own elongated shadows over the
ground. There sprang into view ahead, as they cantered over a small
rise, several sharply sparkling objects.

ÅgWhat _are_ they?Åh cried Tavia.

ÅgThemÅfs winders in Killock,Åh said Lance. ÅgWeÅfll soon be there--and in
plenty of time for your train, Miss.Åh

ÅgOh, Mr. Lance,Åh Dorothy said, gratefully, ÅgI donÅft know how we can
thank you for your kindness.Åh

ÅgDonÅft say a word--donÅft say a word,Åh urged their knight of the lariat.
ÅgWe know how to treat ladies out yere, I reckon. AnÅf I ainÅft done a
thing tuh be thanked for.Åh

ÅgAre you going on with us to Sessions?Åh Dorothy asked him.

ÅgI canÅft rightly do so,Åh said the cowboy. ÅgI got to Åftend to some
business for my boss here in Killock.Åh

ÅgOh! I am so sorry,Åh said Dorothy. ÅgI want you to meet my Aunt Winnie
and my cousins.Åh

ÅgMebbe IÅfll see yuh at Dugonne--later,Åh said Lance, bashfully. ÅgThe
Double Chain Outfit ainÅft far from there.Åh

Dorothy had money enough left to buy tickets to Sessions for herself
and Tavia. Lance refused to take anything for the use of the ponies.
As the train hooted in the distance for its brief stop at Killock, the
girls hugged the ponies, and Tavia kissed Gaby plumb upon her soft nose.

ÅgSheÅfs a dear, Mr. Lance!Åh she cried. ÅgI hope I shall see her again.Åh

ÅgYouÅfll see her if yuh see me,Åh declared the cowpuncher. ÅgWhere I go
Gaby goes, too, you bet!Åh

They shook hands with the good-natured man and scurried aboard the
cars. As they found a seat on the side away from the station, Dorothy
clutched TaviaÅfs arm.

ÅgLook at that man, Tavia!Åh she whispered, pointing through the window.

The person to whom Dorothy drew her chumÅfs attention was stealing out
of the bushes beside the tracks. He was a gray-haired man, with a Grand
Army hat, although the head-covering was battered and torn. He wore a
ragged blue coat, too, and Dorothy had identified the button he wore on
the lapel of the disreputable coat.

He was an unshaven and altogether unhappy looking object; but that
button assured Major DaleÅfs bright eyed daughter, that the poor old
creature was a Veteran.

ÅgWhat do you suppose he is doing here?Åh gasped Dorothy. ÅgOh! the poor
old man!Åh

The car wheels began to turn again. The train had halted for only
a minute. They saw the man hobble across the tracks, and seize the
railing as their car passed him. It was plain to the girls that he
meant to steal a ride upon the fast train.

ÅgOh! heÅfll be killed,Åh gasped Dorothy, half rising from her seat.

ÅgSit down, Doro Dale!Åh exclaimed Tavia. ÅgIf you tell anybody, heÅfll be
put off.Åh

Dorothy was greatly troubled. She never saw a Grand Army man without
being interested in him. And she had never seen one before who so
looked like a tramp.

ÅgThat worries me,Åh said Dorothy Dale, the tears standing in her
beautiful eyes. ÅgI fear that poor man will fall off the steps of the
car.Åh

ÅgI am afraid the brakeman will see him and put him off at the first
stop,Åh retorted Tavia. ÅgAnd we havenÅft money enough to pay his fare.Åh

ÅgGoodness! No!Åh cried Dorothy. ÅgI have less than a dollar left in my
purse.Åh

ÅgAnd of course, I have no money at all. I never _do_ have,Åh groaned the
reckless Tavia.

ÅgAfter the conductor goes through the car,Åh whispered Dorothy, seeing
the man in question coming down the aisle, ÅgI am going to steal back
there and see if the poor old creature really _did_ get upon the steps
outside the vestibule door.Åh




CHAPTER X

THE MAN WHO WOULD HAVE DIED INDOORS


The conductor seemed a jolly man, and he took a fatherly interest in
Dorothy and Tavia, having a daughter about their age at home, so he
said. Yet Dorothy did not feel like telling him about the old tramp
whom she and Tavia had seen attempting to board the train.

ÅgYou see, the conductor has his rules to go by,Åh explained Dorothy,
Ågand we couldnÅft expect him to break them for _us_. I wish we had money
to pay the fare of the poor old creature.Åh

ÅgYou donÅft really know, Dorothy Dale, whether the man is on the step,
or not,Åh urged Tavia.

ÅgIÅfm going to find out,Åh pronounced her chum, with decision.

She left her seat, following the conductor slowly to the end of the
car. Ostensibly she went for a drink, but the moment the blue-coated
official had passed through to the next car, Dorothy went out into the
vestibule. The brakeman chanced to be out of sight at the moment.

The doors on the ÅgoffÅh side of the vestibule were locked, but Dorothy
could peer through the glass. Directly beneath her she could see the
broken top of the old army hat.

ÅgHeÅfs there!Åh gasped Dorothy, running back to Tavia. ÅgWhatever shall we
do about it?Åh

ÅgI wish Lance was here,Åh said her friend. ÅgHeÅfd know what to do.Åh

ÅgWe canÅft have men-folk around to help us out of all our troubles,Åh
sniffed Dorothy.

ÅgThis isnÅft trouble,Åh declared Tavia. ÅgItÅfs really nothing to us----Åh

ÅgBut suppose the poor man should fall off?Åh

ÅgWeÅfre anxious for nothing, I wager,Åh said Tavia. ÅgHe is probably used
to riding on car steps.Åh

ÅgItÅfs such a narrow place,Åh groaned Dorothy. ÅgHe canÅft more than cling
to it. Oh! hereÅfs a curve!Åh

They whirled around this corner and then over a long trestle that
crossed a placid river. When the train _did_ stop the girls did not see
the tramp get off. All the stations chanced to be on the other side, as
Killock had been.

The peril of the man whom Dorothy believed to be a fellow-soldier with
her own father, Major Dale, was the uppermost topic in DorothyÅfs mind
and conversation. Tavia began to have another, and more personal,
worry.

ÅgI could eat a planked steak--plank and all!--right now,Åh said the
flyaway. ÅgDear me, Doro! I wish your purse was like the widowÅfs cruse,
and never gave out. ThereÅfs a buffet car on, too.Åh

They had to satisfy their appetites for the time being by buying some
fruit from the train boy. But this was a poor substitute for planked
steak--or any other hearty viand.

ÅgI hope Aunt Winnie and Ned and Nat will wait for us at Sessions, as I
asked them,Åh sighed Dorothy.

ÅgIf they donÅft, _weÅfll_ have to steal a ride,Åh said Tavia, quickly.
ÅgNed has our tickets, you know.Åh

But _that_ was not a real worry. Dorothy was pretty sure her aunt and
the boys would do just as she had asked them to do. What was happening
outside that car, on the rear step, was a matter (so she thought) for
real anxiety!

A dozen times she went back to peer through the window in the vestibule
door and caught a glimpse of the top of the battered Grand Army hat.

Perhaps she went once too often--for the contentment of the old man
who was cheating the railroad company of a fare. Or, it may have been
in some other manner that the brakemanÅfs attention was called to the
presence of the stowaway on the step. For he was discovered before the
train reached the junction, at eleven oÅfclock, where Dorothy and Tavia
were to leave the train.

The conductor had been through again and talked to them, and they had
learned when and where to look for the station. Other passengers were
already getting their baggage out of the racks, and putting on their
light wraps.

Suddenly the two friends heard a disturbance at the end of the car.
Tavia jumped up and looked back.

ÅgOh, Doro!Åh she cried, in a horrified tone, Ågthey have him!Åh

Dorothy turned quickly and saw the brakeman drag the old tramp into the
car and fling him into an end seat.

ÅgHow rough he is!Åh gasped Tavia, referring to the railroad employee.

Dorothy darted down the aisle. She would have interfered had the
conductor not come at once and taken charge.

ÅgOn the step, eh? Well! he took his life in his hands,Åh grumbled the
conductor. ÅgGive him a drink of water, John. I expect heÅfs famished for
it--chewing grit as he has been since we started.Åh

ÅgOh! what will you do with him?Åh cried Dorothy, clutching at the
conductorÅfs sleeve.

ÅgNothing very bad, little lady,Åh assured the conductor, smiling at her.
ÅgWeÅfll hand him over to the railroad police at Sessions. TheyÅfll take
him to court.Åh

ÅgOh! must he be punished?Åh

ÅgI am afraid so. The companyÅfs pretty strict. HeÅfs been stealing a ride
and the magistrate will send him to the rockpile for that.Åh

ÅgBut heÅfs such an old man--and heÅfs a soldier,Åh whispered Dorothy,
pointing to the button on the lapel of the old coat.

The conductor started and looked more closely. ÅgItÅfs a Grand Army
button--sure enough,Åh he muttered. Then he looked into the soot-lined
face of the man and shook his head.

ÅgStole it, most likely,Åh was his comment, and went on through the car.

Dorothy did not believe that. The manÅfs eyes were dull, and it was
evident that he was much exhausted. A traveling-man came up and offered
him a drink from his pocket-flask. Dorothy was sorry to see how eagerly
the trembling old hands went out for the spirits.

Soon color returned to the flabby cheeks, and a certain look of
confidence to the old eyes, after the tramp had imbibed the liquor.

He was kept in the seat until the train stopped at the Sessions
platform. Then, as the girls hurried out to find their friends, Dorothy
saw the old man with the Grand Army button being taken off the car by
two policemen in plain clothes.

ÅgDorothy Dale!Åh

ÅgTavia Travers!Åh

Two lusty shouts greeted the girls the moment they showed themselves
upon the steps of the car. Ned and Nat White burst through the crowd
outside and seized upon the two girls as they descended.

ÅgGlory!Åh yelled Nat. ÅgI could pound you girls, IÅfm so glad to see you.
You had us scared stiff. And Little Mum will never get over it.Åh

ÅgNot so bad as that,Åh rejoined his brother. ÅgBut you girls certainly
managed to give us all a scare. IÅfd just as soon travel with two kids
as with you graduates of Glenwood School.Åh

ÅgNow, Neddie,Åh advised Tavia, ÅgdonÅft put on airs.Åh

ÅgWeÅfre real sorry, boys,Åh admitted Dorothy. ÅgBut that old train went
off and left us without saying one word!Åh

ÅgI should think it did,Åh answered Ned. ÅgAnd what business had you off
of it?Åh

ÅgIt wasnÅft we that went off,Åh declared Tavia. ÅgIt was the train that
went off.Åh

ÅgWhere have you been all this time?Åh asked Nat. ÅgHow did you get _here_
by an entirely different road? And who helped you?Åh

ÅgOh, there! now youÅfve said something,Åh cried Tavia. ÅgJust the very
nicest young man. A cattle puncher by trade, and we rode fifty miles
with him, and saw a Mrs. Little of gigantic size, and helped a young
woman and her lover elope, and witnessed the ceremony while her father
battered at the door and threatened to blow all our heads off--and were
chased by the angry father thinking _we_ were the elopers, and----Åh

ÅgStop her! stop her!Åh shouted Nat. ÅgI know you girls can collect
adventures as a magnet does steel filings, but you are going too far
now. An elopement! and an angry father with a gun----Åh

ÅgAnd our Grand Army man!Åh cried Dorothy, suddenly. ÅgWhere is he? We
must do something to help him.Åh

ÅgThatÅfs so, Doro,Åh agreed Tavia. ÅgWe must find him.Åh

ÅgNow theyÅfre off again!Åh groaned Nat, looking helplessly at his brother.

ÅgWhere is Aunt Winnie?Åh demanded Dorothy, suddenly.

ÅgShe is at the hotel. And sheÅfs gone to bed,Åh said Ned, gloomily. ÅgYou
girls will give Little Mum the conniptions, if youÅfre not careful. She
was awfully worried.Åh

ÅgBut you got our telegram?Åh cried Dorothy.

ÅgSure. But it read a good deal like the Irish foremanÅfs message to the
widow of his fellow-countryman suddenly killed in the stone quarry:
ÅeDonÅft worry about Pat. HeÅfs only lost both legs and one arm; and if it
wasnÅft that his head was cut off, too, heÅfd be as good as ever.Åf Your
telegram gave just enough particulars to worry mother.Åh

ÅgWeÅfll run and show her we are all right,Åh cried Tavia.

But Dorothy held back. Her eyes were fixed upon the ragged figure of
the old tramp being led out of the station by the two policemen.

ÅgDo you see that poor fellow, Ned?Åh she whispered. ÅgHe wears a Grand
Army button--like father.Åh

ÅgThat tramp?Åh gasped Ned.

ÅgYes. But maybe he isnÅft really a tramp. Only he stole a ride clear
from Killock,Åh and she hastily told her cousins about the stowaway
on the steps of the car. ÅgAnd Ned!Åh added Dorothy Dale, ÅgI want to
save him from punishment. They are going to take him before the
magistrate--and the conductor says the magistrate will send him to
jail.Åh

ÅgI expect so,Åh said Ned, slowly.

ÅgCome, Ned!Åh exclaimed the girl, anxiously, shaking him by the sleeve.
ÅgLet Nat take Tavia to Aunt Winnie, and you come to court with me.
Maybe we can help the poor old man. A Grand Army man, Ned!Åh

Ned White knew that there was no stopping his cousin when she had
Ågtaken the bit in her teeth.Åh And here was a case where she was
greatly moved.

Nobody could gain Dorothy DaleÅfs sympathy like a Grand Army man. Ned
merely shrugged his shoulders and went with her, while Nat and Tavia
started in the other direction.

ÅgRemember we go on the one oÅfclock train,Åh shouted Nat after them.

Dorothy and her cousin quickly caught up with the railroad police and
their captive.

ÅgOh, please, sir!Åh cried Dorothy, to one of the officers, who had a
very kind face, Ågwhere are you taking him?Åh

ÅgHello, Miss!Åh exclaimed the policeman, taking off his hat. ÅgAre you
interested in this old chap?Åh

Dorothy told him why, and how. ÅgOh!Åh said the railroad man, ÅgI didnÅft
know but you knew him. HeÅfs got to go to court, anyway.Åh

ÅgRight away?Åh asked the girl, breathlessly.

ÅgThatÅfs where we are taking him, Miss,Åh said the other officer.

ÅgMay we go with you?Åh

ÅgOf course you may. And if you want to say a good word for the old
fellow to Judge Abbott, IÅfll fix it so you can,Åh he added.

ÅgThat is _so_ kind of you!Åh Dorothy said. ÅgYou see, he is a Grand Army
man.Åh

ÅgMebbe he stole the button, Miss,Åh growled one of the police.

Dorothy turned swiftly to the prisoner. His old face was drawn and
haggard. Dorothy put her finger upon the button on the frayed lapel of
his coat.

ÅgWhere did you get that, sir?Åh she asked.

Almost instantly the dull eyes brightened. The sagging chin came up and
the old shoulders were squared.

ÅgIt belongs to me, Miss,Åh he said, in a broken voice. ÅgI am an army
man--oh, yes! Thank you. I--I been in the Home; but I couldnÅft stay
indoor. So--so I ran away.Åh

ÅgRan away!Åh gasped Dorothy. ÅgAnd where were you running to?Åh

ÅgTo the great out-of-doors,Åh whispered the old man. ÅgI always lived in
the open. I prospected, and I hunted, and I worked--all through these
hills,Åh and he pointed westward.

ÅgI suppose I did wrong in beating my way on the cars. But IÅfve often
done it,Åh confessed the old man. ÅgI had no money for carfare. My
pensionÅfs turned over to the Home as is only right, I sÅfpose. But I got
to get out into the open, or die!Åh

The two railroad police looked at each other, grimly. ÅgWhat do you know
about that?Åh one muttered. Dorothy was frankly crying.

[Illustration: ÅgOUGHT HE TO BE A PRISONER WITH THAT BUTTON ON HIS
COAT?Åh CRIED DOROTHY. _Dorothy Dale in the West Page 101_]




CHAPTER XI

AT DUGONNE AT LAST


ÅgYou see, Miss,Åh said one of the officers, Ågwe got to take him to
court. ItÅfs as much as our jobÅfs worth to let him go.Åh

ÅgWeÅfll all go along,Åh said Ned, firmly. ÅgMaybe the judge will be kind
to him.Åh

ÅgBut theyÅfve got a bad law in this town,Åh said the other officer,
shaking his head.

ÅgWhat kind of a law?Åh asked Ned, quickly.

ÅgIn regard to vagrants. ItÅfs three months on the stone pile, or with
ball and chain. No getting out of it, unless the prisoner has money
enough to buy a ticket that will take him fifty miles away, on one road
or the other.Åh

ÅgWhy! that is barbarous!Åh exclaimed Dorothy.

ÅgDunno about that, MaÅfam; but itÅfs the municipal ordinance.Åh

ÅgOh! the judge of the court must have _some_ power,Åh cried Dorothy. ÅgDo
let me talk to him.Åh

The magistrateÅfs court was not far distant. Ned felt rather peculiar
as he climbed the stairs in company with the prisoner and officers,
holding DorothyÅfs hand in the crook of his arm. There were some pretty
rough looking characters on the stairs and hanging about the door of
the magistrateÅfs court. But Ned and Dorothy pushed on in the wake of
the railroad police and their prisoner.

Dorothy sympathized so deeply with the old man who had escaped from
the discipline and routine of the SoldiersÅf Home, that she paid little
attention to her surroundings.

The courtroom was long, and ugly, and bare. The man sitting at the high
desk at the end of the room, Dorothy knew, must be the magistrate. He
was a young, smoothly shaven man, dressed very fashionably, and with a
flower in his buttonhole. That flower was the single bright spot in all
the somber place.

The railroad policeman looked knowingly at Dorothy, and she went
forward with Ned. They were both allowed inside the railing. One of the
officers spoke in a low tone to the magistrate, and the latter glanced
interestedly at Dorothy.

Although Dorothy Dale had been traveling night and day for some time,
she was too attractive a girl to lose all her bonny appearance under
_any_ circumstances.

The magistrate listened to the railroad detective. Then he called the
poor old man to the bar.

ÅgWhat is your name?Åh asked the magistrate.

ÅgJohn Dempsey, your honor.Åh

ÅgWithout a home in this county, and no visible means of support, the
officer says--is that right?Åh

ÅgI--I--Yes, your honor.Åh

ÅgAnd found riding on the train without a ticket?Åh

ÅgI was, your honor.Åh

ÅgWhy? Why did you do it?Åh

ÅgSure, your honor, they treat me well enough at the Home; but I want to
get out in the open. ItÅfs stifled I am become by four walls.Åh

ÅgBut that does not explain away the fact that you stole a ride upon the
complainantÅfs train?Åh said the magistrate, sternly.

Dorothy looked up at him pleadingly. John Dempsey was silent; he could
not plead his own cause in speech as eloquent as DorothyÅfs eyes pleaded
for him! Judge Abbott beckoned the young girl to step up beside him.

ÅgI understand you wish to speak in the prisonerÅfs behalf?Åh said the
magistrate.

ÅgOh, Judge! ought he to be a prisoner with that button on his coat?Åh
cried Dorothy Dale, impulsively. ÅgHe is an old Veteran--a man who
fought for our country. I am sure Mr. Dempsey is a good man. _DonÅft_
punish him, Judge!Åh

ÅgBut, my dear young lady, how can I help it? He has committed a
misdemeanor. He must either be sent to jail, or he must produce his
fare out of town--and fifty miles out of town, at that!Åh

ÅgOh, sir! canÅft somebody else pay his fare?Åh asked Dorothy, anxiously.

ÅgSurely, Miss. Are you prepared to do so?Åh

ÅgNo, sir, not now. But I will take him away on the one oÅfclock train--I
will indeed.Åh

ÅgVery well. Sentence suspended. Paroled in _your_ care,Åh added the
judge to one of the railroad officers. ÅgYou have him at the station in
season for the train, and the young lady will be responsible for his
fare.Åh

Dorothy thanked him, but went eagerly to the prisoner.

ÅgWhere do you want to go, sir?Åh she asked.

ÅgI--I--Well, Miss, it donÅft so much matter as long as I git to _go_. I
want to reach the hills.Åh

ÅgYou shall go with us as far as Dugonne, at least,Åh said Dorothy,
impulsively. ÅgIÅfm sure we can find something for him to do at the
Hardin place, Ned?Åh she added, turning to her cousin.

Ned was more than a little startled by this. Things were moving rather
too fast for him. But he managed to say:

ÅgYou--youÅfll have to settle that with the mater, Dot.Åh But then he
whispered: ÅgWhat can an old fellow like him do on a ranch?Åh

ÅgThatÅfs all right,Åh Dorothy returned. ÅgWeÅfll make him _think_ he can do
something.Åh

ÅgYou do beat all!Åh gasped her cousin, with astonishment.

Dorothy shook hands with the judge, and with the railroad officers, and
with John Dempsey. She scattered the sunshine of her smiles all about
the dingy court room, and things seemed to brighten up for everybody.

Then she hurried with Ned to the hotel where Aunt Winnie was waiting.

ÅgMy dear girl!Åh said that good lady. ÅgHow you have worried me. And
TaviaÅfs account of your adventures have not served to relieve our
anxiety--much. Going to court with a tramp----Åh

ÅgNot a tramp, Auntie!Åh interposed Dorothy Dale. ÅgHe is one of fatherÅfs
old comrades. He is a Veteran.Åh

ÅgI hope so. I hope you have not been imposed upon. But it will cost
money----Åh

ÅgYou told me,Åh said Dorothy, earnestly, Ågthat when we got to the Hardin
place youÅfd buy a pony for my very own use. Take that money and pay
John DempseyÅfs fare. I donÅft need a pony.Åh

Aunt Winnie kissed her. ÅgMy dear girl! I am afraid your sympathy will
often lead you astray,Åh she said. ÅgBut you will stray in kindly paths.
I do not believe there will be much serious harm for you that way.Åh

ÅgWhat do you think of _me_?Åh broke in Tavia. ÅgI am always going astray,
too. At least, so they all tell me.Åh

ÅgYour heart is all right, my dear Octavia,Åh said Mrs. White, smiling,
Ågbut it is your head that leads _you_ astray,Åh she added, not unkindly.

They all went to the railroad station in good season, and there found
the policeman and old John Dempsey waiting for them. The good-natured
officer had improved the old manÅfs appearance considerably by having
his clothing brushed and finding him the means for washing. Dempsey had
likewise been fed.

He was a brown-faced, blue-eyed man of nearly seventy. The blue eyes
had, perhaps, a wandering look, and the muscles about the old manÅfs
mouth had weakened, but otherwise he was sturdy looking.

He saluted Dorothy when she hurried toward him, but took off his hat to
Mrs. White.

ÅgÅfTis a pity, MaÅfam,Åh he said, to the lady, Ågthat you do be troubled by
such as me. But IÅfm fair despÅfrit! IÅfd take charity from anybody to git
back into the open once more.

ÅgTheyÅfve hived me up in four walls till itÅfs fair mad theyÅfve made me.
I might strike it rich yet, out in the hills, anÅf pay ye for----Åh

ÅgOh, donÅft you worry about that,Åh said Mrs. White, kindly. ÅgI am sure
we can find something for you to do out of doors on our big place that
will make you self-supporting.Åh

ÅgGod bless ye for saying that, MaÅfam,Åh said John Dempsey, gratefully,
and followed on behind the party to the train, where the policeman bade
them good-bye.

The boys took charge of John Dempsey and saw him comfortably seated in
the day coach. It was a long run to Dugonne, where the party arrived at
nine oÅfclock that evening.

Dorothy was so anxiously looking forward to the end of the train
journey that she had quite forgotten some of the circumstances
connected with this sudden trip. There, on the lighted platform, as the
train rolled in, appeared the stocky, black mustached man for whom she
and Tavia had taken such a dislike.

ÅgPhilo Marsh!Åh ejaculated Dorothy to her chum.

ÅgHe got here ahead of us.Åh

ÅgHe had no intention of letting Aunt Winnie get here first,Åh declared
Dorothy. ÅgNow, Tavia, we must watch that man; he means Aunt Winnie no
good, IÅfm sure.Åh

Philo Marsh rushed forward to greet Mrs. White, with both hands
extended, when the party from the East left the train.

ÅgI certainly made good connections,Åh he said, with enthusiasm,
insisting upon shaking hands with the two boys as well as the lady
herself. The girls kept away from him, and it was evident that the man
did not recognize them, but he swept off his hat and bowed deeply to
Dorothy and Tavia, when Mrs. White presented them as Ågmy niece, and her
friend.Åh

ÅgIÅfve the best suite in the best hotel in Dugonne saved for you,Åh Philo
Marsh declared. ÅgIÅfve ordered supper for you, too. TheyÅfll serve it
just as soon as you arrive, in your sitting room. Oh, we can do things
in good style out yere if we put our minds to it,Åh and the man laughed
heartily.

ÅgAnd in the morning IÅfll come and talk with you, Mrs. White. If you
want to see some of the other men interested in this water-right
business, IÅfll bring them.Åh

ÅgOh, mercy, sir!Åh cried Aunt Winnie. ÅgLet us get rested and look
about a little before we rush into business. But I will let you call
to-morrow afternoon, Mr. Marsh.Åh

With this, Philo Marsh had to be content. The party of tourists were
driven away in a depot wagon for the Commonwealth Hotel.




CHAPTER XII

ON THE ROAD TO HARDINÅfS


ÅgGoodness gracious, grumpy gree!Åh yawned Tavia. ÅgIsnÅft a really-truly
bed the greatest invention known to civilized man, Doro?Åh

ÅgI donÅft know about its being the first on the list; but it certainly
_is_ a delight after sleeping on a shelf in that car,Åh agreed Dorothy
Dale, stretching luxuriously.

ÅgI hate to get up.Åh

ÅgYou can stay here all day alone, then,Åh said her chum, briskly. ÅgAunt
Winnie means to get to the Hardin ranch-house before night.Åh

ÅgThen what about Philo Marsh?Åh cried Tavia.

ÅgShe confided to me,Åh chuckled Dorothy, Ågthat that is why she told him
not to come around until afternoon. She will see him just before we
start for HardinÅfs.Åh

ÅgHeÅfll be mad as fury.Åh

ÅgLet him be. Auntie says she is determined to look over the estate, and
see the water supply herself, and survey the proposed new channel,
before she signs a paper.Åh

ÅgBully for her!Åh cried the slangy Tavia. ÅgI bet that pirate, Philo
Marsh, has something up his sleeve beside his arm.Åh

Bang! bang! bang! A knock at the girlsÅf door.

ÅgOh! is the house afire?Åh shrieked Tavia, leaping out of bed. ÅgOr is it
Papa Crater again, trying to find Molly and her bridegroom?Åh

ÅgWhat are you girls waiting for?Åh demanded Nat, on the other side of
the door. ÅgCome on! Ned and I have been up for hours, and have hired a
four-horse stage-coach--a regular old timer out of a show, I bet--to
cart us and the baggage to HardinÅfs.Åh

ÅgOh!Åh cried Dorothy. ÅgYouÅfre not starting at once?Åh

ÅgGuess youÅfll have time to dress and eat breakfast first--if you
hurry,Åh chuckled Nat, as he went off down the hotel corridor.

This was only NatÅfs fun. He and Ned were lonely and wanted to show the
girls the town. Not that the sprawling western metropolis was much of a
sight, after all!

Dugonne was a rambling, raw, uninviting place. The junction of the two
railroads made its existence here possible, for there were neither
cattle interests, farms, or mines very near.

Aunt Winnie remained in her room, but Ned and Nat took the girls
down to the breakfast table and proved that the Commonwealth Hotel of
Dugonne could cater to the taste of touring Easterners.

They saw a small bunch of steers being driven through a back street of
the town and learned that they were from the Double Chain Outfit.

ÅgThat is a big concern, they tell me,Åh said Ned White, who was much
interested in cattle--or seemed to be since his mother had become part
owner of a range and ranch. ÅgColonel Hardin sold most of his herd
before he died.Åh

ÅgBut the Double Chain isnÅft very near this town?Åh asked Tavia. ÅgThat
Mr. Lance told me it was a dayÅfs ride--and you can ride a long way in a
day on these cow ponies--canÅft you, Doro?Åh

ÅgThose dear little things!Åh cried Dorothy. ÅgThey just fly.Åh

ÅgAnd youÅfre not going to have a pony, after all,Åh said Ned, solemnly.
ÅgArenÅft you sorry you picked that tramp up, Dot?Åh

ÅgHeÅfs not a tramp, Ned White!Åh exclaimed Dorothy. ÅgDonÅft call him that,
please. And where is Mr. Dempsey?Åh

ÅgHe went with us to hire the stage-coach,Åh said Nat. ÅgAnd believe me,
he has his wits about him. He has lived out this way ever since the
war, he says, and he knows all about everything,Åh added the younger
boy, with some admiration.

ÅgWe left him at the corral where we engaged the wagon and team and
driver,Åh Ned said. ÅgHe is going with us--never you fear, my dear coz.Åh

Dorothy did not mind their poking fun at her because of her prot?g?.

The quartette of young folks came back to the hotel before noon and
found Aunt Winnie at a late breakfast.

ÅgI have seen one of the lawyers who had charge of Colonel HardinÅfs
affairs,Åh she said. ÅgHe will be back here in half an hour with certain
papers, and I shall go to court with him.

ÅgMy intention is to go on to the ranch to-day, as I said last evening,Åh
continued Aunt Winnie. ÅgSo donÅft go far away from the hotel, children.
What time did you tell the man to have the conveyance here, Edward?Åh

ÅgTwo oÅfclock.Åh

ÅgAnd you ought to see it!Åh cried Nat. ÅgLooks just like the one the
Indians chase and capture in the Buffalo Bill show.Åh

ÅgIs that the best conveyance you could find, Edward?Åh asked Mrs. White,
with some suspicion.

These mischievous young people were forever playing jokes, and she was
doubtful. But Ned was serious.

ÅgBest I could find, Mother--believe me! All the carriages they have
in this manÅfs town are buckboards--and weÅfd have to hire a caravan of
those to pile all the baggage on--and us, too. This old coach with four
mustangs to draw it, will take Åeall hands and the cook.ÅfÅh

ÅgI hope you have done the right thing, my son,Åh said Aunt Winnie. ÅgTake
care of yourselves, children, till I come back from the court with Mr.
Jermyn.Åh

There was not much going on in the business part of Dugonne that the
four young Easterners did not see. They came to the dinner table with
ravenous appetites and a whole lot to chatter about.

Mrs. WhiteÅfs business with the lawyers, and with the court, was
finished for the time being. Just before two oÅfclock a great,
staggering old coach, on four rattling wheels, drew up at the door of
the hotel. At a former day, mail and passengers had been transported
between Dugonne and various outlying mining camps in all directions in
this vehicle.

ÅgAnd the mud of twenty years ago is still clinging to the wheels,Åh said
Dorothy. ÅgOh, Ned! it is a most disgraceful looking affair.Åh

ÅgI couldnÅft find anything better,Åh answered the young man.

ÅgHe is making a regular show of us,Åh said Tavia. ÅgI suppose we ought
to dress in short skirts, and buckskin blouses, Doro, and wear fringed
leggins and sombreros. Be regular Åecowgirls.ÅfÅh

ÅgWell, Tavia,Åh drawled Nat. ÅgYou have a cowboy on the string they tell
me----Åh

ÅgNathaniel!Åh admonished Mrs. White. ÅgWhat language!Åh and she bustled
forward to see the outfit.

Four spirited mustangs drew the coach--and those mustangs looked as
though they had never known currycomb and brush--which was probably
the fact! Old John Dempsey was sitting beside the driver, who was a
broad-hatted, smiling Mexican, with gleaming teeth, beadlike black
eyes, and gold rings in his ears.

ÅgIt _is_ an awful looking thing,Åh gasped Aunt Winnie, when she saw the
old coach.

ÅgIt is a whole lot better than it looks, mother,Åh urged Ned.

ÅgAnd only think!Åh cried Nat, Ågthe man that owns it says that that stage
was held up by ÅeBilly, the Kid,Åf a famous road agent in these parts,
who got the registered mail-sack after shooting the driver, and all the
passengersÅf money and jewelry.Åh

ÅgHow deliciously horrid!Åh said Tavia. ÅgDo you suppose Mr. Billy, the
Kid will hold _us_ up?Åh

ÅgNot unless his ghost comes back to do it,Åh chuckled Ned. ÅgThey hanged
Billy, the Kid, years ago, so the man told me.Åh

ÅgIt would be just too romantic for anything to meet a real highwayman,Åh
said Tavia.

ÅgWhy, this town has mounted police that patrol the suburbs--I saw a
couple,Åh laughed Ned. ÅgRomance is dead, Miss Tavia, in these parts.Åh

ÅgYou wouldnÅft say so if youÅfd seen our cowboy--would he, Doro?Åh

ÅgA cowpuncher!Åh sniffed Nat. ÅgLike that ÅebabyÅf old Mrs. Petterby is
going to visit.Åh

ÅgI wonder where the old lady is?Åh said Dorothy. ÅgShe arrived at Dugonne
ahead of us, of course.Åh

ÅgSure,Åh said her cousin Ned. ÅgShe stayed on the train when we left it
at Sessions. But she was just as worried about you girls as any of us
when she learned you had been left behind.Åh

ÅgWe shall look her up later,Åh pronounced Dorothy. ÅgAnd IÅfm awfully
anxious to see her son.Åh

ÅgWonder if he works for the same outfit TaviaÅfs new beau works for?Åh
queried Ned. ÅgYou know, the Double Chain Outfit is the only sizable one
left in this part of the country. Its ranges adjoin Colonel HardinÅfs
on the north. On the south of this land we are going to see, lies the
farming country and Desert City.Åh

ÅgI should think we would have gone right to Desert City by train,Åh
said Dorothy, Ågif that is where these people want the water.Åh

ÅgBut you canÅft get to Desert City by rail,Åh her cousin explained.
ÅgNorth of the Hardin place are the Double Chain ranges, and the mining
properties in the hills belonging to the Consolidated Ackron Company--a
big concern. South of Desert City, the map shows nothing but desert for
hundreds of miles.Åh

ÅgThereÅfs that Marsh man,Åh said Tavia, suddenly, to Dorothy. ÅgI donÅft
want to see him again.Åh

ÅgHe doesnÅft remember that he met us in the road near home----Åh

ÅgBut _I_ havenÅft forgotten it,Åh finished Tavia.

ÅgNeither have I,Åh sighed Dorothy. ÅgAnd I am really afraid for Aunt
Winnie to have anything to do with him.Åh

Mrs. White kept them waiting while she conferred with Mr. Philo
Marsh, for whom she had telephoned when she knew the stagecoach was
in waiting. The gentleman was not pleased by the brevity of the
conference, as his face very plainly showed when he came out. His
piratical mustache seemed to droop more than ever and he had completely
lost his suave manner.

ÅgI shall ride out to see you very soon, Mrs. White,Åh he said--rather,
he threatened! ÅgAnd I shall bring the committee with me. WeÅfve got to
have this thing settled up.Åh

ÅgNot until I am quite ready to settle it, Mr. Marsh,Åh said Aunt Winnie,
firmly. ÅgI think you must forget that it is within the power of Major
Dale and myself to refuse to lease the water-rights entirely.Åh

ÅgSay! that was a stiff jolt Little Mum gave him,Åh whispered Ned to
Dorothy.

ÅgAnd did you see his face?Åh returned Dorothy. ÅgI--I am really afraid of
that man.Åh

ÅgAh, pshaw! no reason for being afraid,Åh returned Ned, confidently. ÅgI
guess nothing will ever happen to mother, with me and Nat along.Åh

The trunks and bags had been strapped on the rack behind the coach,
or thrown into its interior. The whole party--even Aunt Winnie--had
elected to ride on the roof of the vehicle.

There was room beside the driver for only John Dempsey, but in two
wide, low seats fastened to the roof behind the driver, was room for
the remainder of the party. Aunt Winnie, with Dorothy and Tavia on
either side of her, sat on the more forward of these seats, while Ned
and Nat lolled on the one behind.

ÅgIf we only had a horn now, weÅfd be fixed for this tallyho ride,Åh said
Nat.

ÅgBut, goodness gracious!Åh gasped Tavia, peering down over the iron arm
of her seat. ÅgSuppose we should fall off?Åh

ÅgThat isnÅft what you climbed up here for,Åh advised Dorothy. ÅgDo be
careful, Tavia.Åh

At that moment the Mexican saw that all was free and clear, and he
lifted the reins. His long whiplash writhed over the leadersÅf ears, and
cracked like a pistol shot. The half-wild mustangs leaped against their
collars.

ÅgOh--dear--me!Åh gasped Aunt Winnie. ÅgWe shall certainly be shaken off.Åh

ÅgIt will be easier riding, MaÅfam,Åh said John Dempsey, turning and
touching his hat respectfully, Ågwhen we get out of town. DonÅft you be
afraid, MaÅfam.Åh

But the old coach did dip, and wiggle, and threaten to toss the girls
and Mrs. White off at every turn. Tavia squealed, and then saw that
people on the sidewalks were quietly enjoying her discomfort.

ÅgDo letÅfs be dignified,Åh she said to Dorothy. ÅgThere! thereÅfs a man
staring---- Oh!Åh

ÅgItÅfs Mr. Lance!Åh cried Dorothy, recognizing their friend, the cowboy
from the Double Chain Outfit.

ÅgMy goodness! so it is,Åh agreed Tavia, and smiled upon the knight of
the lariat ravishingly.

Dorothy would have been glad to introduce Lance to Aunt Winnie and the
boys, but the time did not seem opportune. The Mexican twisted his
team into a side street, and the coach took the corner on two wheels
only!

As Dorothy caught at the rail and hung on for dear life, she looked
back and saw Lance hailed by another man. She could not mistake this
second individual; it was Mr. Philo Marsh. As their coach plunged
around the corner Dorothy saw Marsh seize the cowboy by the arm and
lead him confidentially away.

There was too much happening to her personally just then for Dorothy
Dale to wonder much about this association of the cowpuncher and Philo
Marsh. The mustangs settled into a gallop and the stagecoach was
whirled out of town in a cloud of dust. But when the cobbles were left
behind, the vehicle jounced less, and they could get their breath.

ÅgDonÅft ever ask me to sit upon such a thing again, Edward,Åh exclaimed
Mrs. White, with some exasperation.

ÅgBut if you had gone inside, youÅfd have been shaken about like a loose
pea in a pod,Åh declared her son. ÅgI fancy you are better off up here,
mother.Åh

The sweep of the road that lay before them was gray and dusty. The
trees were scrub, and there was rather a deserted look to the country
immediately outside of Dugonne.

Wheeling southwest, they quickly lost the railroad lines, and low hills
surrounded them. There was not a house in sight, and the last few they
had seen were merely slab shacks--some with corrugated iron roofs.

But within two miles of the edge of the town they descried a moving
figure ahead, even if no human habitation appeared. It was a woman,
trudging along, at the bottom of an arroyo, or dry water-course, which
here was the trail.

She did not look around at them, but the young folks on top of the
coach got a clear view of the lonely figure. She wore a close black
bonnet, and she carried a basket in one hand. Her decent black dress
was gray with dust.

ÅgDo you see who that is, Tavia Travers!Åh gasped Dorothy, suddenly.
ÅgItÅfs Mrs. Petterby!Åh

ÅgNever!Åh ejaculated Tavia.

The mustangs began to prick up their ears as they approached the lone
pedestrian. Dorothy bent forward and seized the MexicanÅfs shoulder.

ÅgStop them--do stop them, sir!Åh she cried. ÅgWe know that old lady and
weÅfll give her a ride if sheÅfs going our way.Åh

The Mexican yelled at the mustangs, and dragged them down to a slower
pace. They did not want to stop, but by the time they came abreast of
the little old lady from RandÅfs Falls, Massachusetts, they were merely
trotting.

ÅgMrs. Petterby!Åh cried Dorothy, leaning down from the seat and waving
her hand. ÅgWherever are you going--and with Ophelia?Åh

ÅgBless us!Åh exclaimed Mrs. Petterby. ÅgIf it ainÅft that nice Dale
gal--and all her folks. I was reÅfl worrited about you, my dear--and
your pretty friend. I see you caught up all right,Åh and she nodded and
smiled at them all, while the mustangs impatiently shook their heads
and stamped with all their sixteen hoofs.

ÅgWe are all right, surely, Mrs. Petterby,Åh said DorothyÅfs aunt. ÅgBut
what are you doing on this road?Åh

ÅgWhy, MaÅfam, I expect to meet my son out this a-way. They told me he
often stops with a man named Nicholson, just beyond here. I didnÅft feel
like payinÅf for a ride; and IÅfm spry. But OpheliaÅfs gittinÅf cross.Åh

There was a flutter inside the basket and the nearest horse pricked up
his ears and rolled his eyes at it.

ÅgIs NicholsonÅfs on our road?Åh Dorothy asked the Mexican driver.

ÅgSi, si!Åh said the man. ÅgShe not far.Åh

ÅgYou will ride with us, wonÅft you, Mrs. Petterby?Åh cried Dorothy.

ÅgWal, child, thatÅfs pretty high for me to climb, ainÅft it?Åh

But she was tired and warm, and the chance to ride tempted her. Spry
as she was, back in RandÅfs Falls, this dust and sun of Colorado were
different.

ÅgWeÅfll give her a hand up,Åh exclaimed Ned.

Before he or Nat could descend, the driver did so. He thrust the reins
into the hands of old John Dempsey, and went over the wheel in a flash.
Smiling and bowing he put out his hand for the basket, and turned
swiftly to hand it up before aiding the old lady herself.

It was at this very moment that the sensitive Ophelia decided to make a
break for liberty. She squawked, pushed up one of the basket lids, and
flopped right out over the MexicanÅfs head.

ÅgOh! stop her!Åh cried Mrs. Petterby.

But there was no stopping Ophelia just then. She struck the nearest
mustang and he plunged ahead, snorting. On the instant all four of the
beasts were off at a gallop, leaving the Mexican, Mrs. Petterby, and
Ophelia herself, behind.




CHAPTER XIII

AT THE RANCH HOUSE


ÅgI thought I was in an airship!Åh Tavia declared.

That was after the excitement was all over, however. At the moment the
mustangs started, all she did was to scream!

The four half-wild little beasts leaped forward with one accord when
the frightened pullet flew squawking over them. The coach lurched
horribly; but the wheels remained in the ruts.

Old John Dempsey held the ribbons, and held them firmly; but he was
not on the driverÅfs side of the seat. There was both a foot-break and
a half-lever-break; but he was unable to reach either. And in his old
arms was no longer the strength to pull the beasts in.

Ned and Nat were shut off from the front seat by their mother and the
two girls. Tavia, beside screaming, seized the railing of the seat.
Aunt Winnie clung to her, and would have seized Dorothy as well, but
the latter flung off her auntÅfs hand and plunged over the back of the
driverÅfs seat.

Frightened as she was, brave Dorothy knew that it was her chance, and
her chance only. As the mustangs gathered their feet under them and
whipped the tottering old coach up the side of the arroyo, Dorothy slid
into the place the Mexican had deserted.

Fortunately she had watched him manipulate the brakes. And the mustangs
had the drag of the coach behind them going up hill. Going down it
might have been a very different story. True it was, that when the
panting, straining horses came out upon the level at the top of the
rise, they were glad to stop to breathe. With Dorothy giving them the
brakes and the old Grand Army Veteran on the lines, the four rascals
were glad to stop.

Up came Jos? Morale, having left the excited old lady, and the excited
hen, at the bottom of the hill. What he said in his own language to the
horses was a plenty! But in the next breath he praised Dorothy for her
pluck in most extravagant terms.

As for that matter, they all praised her; but Dorothy would not listen.

ÅgSomebody had to do it--why not me?Åh she demanded. ÅgNow, Ned and Nat,
you run back there and help Mrs. Petterby catch that hen, and then
bring them both on. WeÅfll wait here for you.Åh

It was then that Tavia had a slight attack of hysterics. ÅgThat hen will
be the death of me! she will! she will!Åh gasped the girl. ÅgDid you ever
hear of anything so ridiculous in all your life?Åh

ÅgNow, donÅft laugh and make Mrs. Petterby feel as though you were
laughing at her,Åh admonished Dorothy.

ÅgBut if we take her to ride with us, and Ophelia lays an egg in this
stage, and the egg hatches out a chicken,Åh gasped Tavia, Ågthat chicken
will be a nervous wreck from the start. At least, it will be afflicted
with St. Vitus Dance.Åh

ÅgDo be reasonable!Åh exclaimed Dorothy. ÅgThere! the boys have caught
Ophelia.Åh She was standing up on the stage roof, looking back at the
little group below. Suddenly a man on pony-back appeared over the last
rise the coach had crossed, and headed down into the hollow.

ÅgWhoÅfs that coming?Åh demanded Tavia, from whose bright eyes little
escaped.

ÅgWhy--why----Åh

ÅgItÅfs our knight of the lariat!Åh exclaimed Tavia, excitedly. ÅgItÅfs Mr.
Lance.Åh

ÅgI believe you are right. That is Gaby he is riding.Åh

ÅgOf course it is Gaby,Åh said Tavia. Åg_Now_ we can introduce him to your
aunt. And oh! Mrs. White! he is just the loveliest thing!Åh

ÅgHow recklessly you talk about the young men, Octavia,Åh said Mrs.
White. ÅgI believe he was very kind to you girls, however. I shall be
glad to thank him.Åh

Ned was helping Mrs. Petterby along on his arm, while Nat carried the
basket, with Ophelia safely fastened within, when Lance overtook them.

The cowboy raised his hat in salute and would have ridden on, but Mrs.
Petterby suddenly manifested much excitement. She screamed aloud and
even Dorothy, on top of the hill, heard her:

ÅgLance Petterby! for the good landÅfs sake! if it ainÅft my baby!Åh

The cowboy swung in his saddle, pulled the pony up short, and instantly
leaped to the ground.

ÅgJerusha Juniper!Åh he yelled. ÅgMOTHER!Åh

The little old lady ran straight into his arms. The big cowpuncher
caught her up and hugged her tightly. Even at that distance Dorothy
could see the surprise and delight depicted upon his countenance.

ÅgAnd we never dreamed,Åh murmured Tavia, Ågthat ÅeLanceÅf was his _first_
name.Åh

ÅgShe has found him; isnÅft it delightful?Åh cried Dorothy, and she
insisted upon climbing down and running to meet the little old lady
from RandÅfs Falls, Massachusetts, and her stalwart son.

ÅgMr. Lance!Åh she cried, ÅgI am so delighted to see you. And to think
we know your mother, and were just about to give her a ride when those
horrid ponies ran away!Åh

ÅgJerusha Juniper, Miss!Åh said the cowboy. ÅgHowever this old lady got
clean out yere, I dunno. But maybe I ainÅft glad to see her!Åh

He caught her up again in his arms, and Mrs. Petterby laughed and
flushed like a girl. ÅgStop your silliness, Lance Petterby,Åh she
ordered. ÅgSet me down. Miss Dale will think ye ainÅft got the sense ye
was born with. And donÅft let that boy drop Ophelia.Åh

It took some minutes to explain to the cowboy the present
situation--and especially how his mother came to be on this lonely
trail, afoot.

It seemed that he was often at the squatter--NicholsonÅfs--house and
that was why people in Dugonne had advised Mrs. Petterby to look for
Lance there.

They got the old lady into the coach and seated her with the chickenÅfs
basket in her lap, and Mrs. White elected to get down and ride with
her. The mustangs started on; Lance Petterby rode beside the stage.
Dorothy noticed that the cowboy kept close to TaviaÅfs side.

Tavia was talking Ågnineteen to the dozen,Åh as Nat disgustedly said;
Ågand the use sheÅfs making of her eyes is a shame!Åh he added, in an
aside, to Dorothy. But Dorothy could not stop her chum. The reckless
girl had Ågtaken the bit in her teeth.Åh

Lance was fairly bowled over by the batteries of TaviaÅfs speech and
glances. After all, to the unsophisticated cowboy, Tavia was quite a
grown-up young lady. Dorothy knew that if he lost his head it would not
be his fault, but her chumÅfs.

ÅgIÅfm ashamed of you, Tavia Travers,Åh she whispered, fiercely, in the
black-eyed girlÅfs ear. ÅgHow dare you? If Aunt Winnie was up here with
us now sheÅfd put a stop to this, young lady.Åh

ÅgOh, Doro! youÅfre just killing!Åh cried Tavia, wickedly, and giggled,
and bridled, just as though her friend had said something very funny to
her. After that Dorothy held her peace grimly.

She was glad that Lance was going no further with them than NicholsonÅfs
place. There he and Mrs. Petterby were to stay for a day or two before
going on to the headquarters of the Double Chain Outfit, where Lance
worked.

Mrs. White invited them both to come over to HardinÅfs, where she
decided that she and the young folk would remain for six weeks, at
least. She was especially gracious to Lance, and thanked him again for
his kindness to the two girls when they had been left behind by the
train; she might not have asked him so cordially to visit HardinÅfs had
she known how Tavia had been acting.

ÅgWe sartain sureÅfll come to see ye,Åh Mrs. Petterby said, briskly,
ÅgpervidinÅf Lance kin find something a mite more steady for me to ride
in. I shall want to see ye all again before I start back East.Åh

ÅgOh, yuh wonÅft want tuh start back yet awhile, mother,Åh drawled Lance.

ÅgI dunno,Åh said Mrs. Petterby. ÅgI ainÅft seen nothinÅf yet in Colorado
the ekal of RandÅfs Falls, Massachusetts.Åh

ÅgWeÅfll fix _that_,Åh grunted Lance, waving his hat again, as the old
coach lumbered away along the track.

The sun was sinking when the now wearied mustangs drew the coach up
the round flank of the hill on which the Hardin ranch house was set.
Like most dwellings in the cattle country, the house was sprawling, one
story only in height, and rather picturesque.

ÅgI just love the look of it,Åh Dorothy declared, standing up to see it
better. ÅgDonÅft you, Tavia?Åh

ÅgI would if I could think of the scene long enough,Åh admitted her chum.
ÅgBut, oh, me! oh, my! I am wondering if there will be anything in the
line of supper forthcoming? IÅfm so hungry it takes my mind off the
scenery.Åh

ÅgHow ridiculous! of course there will be something to eat.Åh

ÅgBut will there be enough?Åh cried Tavia.

Mrs. White assured her there would be supper. The lawyers at Dugonne
had told her that there were Colonel HardinÅfs foreman and his family on
the place, as well as several herdsmen.

Dorothy continued to gaze wonderingly at the rolling green and brown
pastures, wire-fenced and evidently carefully kept up, rising in
high terraces from beyond the ranch house into the wooded and rugged
foothills to the west.

ÅgI expect,Åh said Aunt Winnie, Ågup in that rugged country yonder lies
the wonderful Lost River they tell me about--the water supply. It may
increase the value of the great estate enormously, as the lawyers say,
but I fear it is going to make me a lot of trouble.Åh

ÅgDo you think so, Aunt Winnie?Åh asked Dorothy, earnestly.

ÅgYes. I spoke of the matter to Mr. Jermyn, and he advised me to go
slowly. There are other people after the water beside Desert City and
some farmers to whom Colonel Hardin promised it.Åh

ÅgWho else?Åh

ÅgSome big mining syndicate.Åh

ÅgThat must be the Consolidated Ackron Company,Åh Ned broke in. ÅgBut what
do _they_ want of water?Åh

ÅgHydraulic mining, I understand,Åh said his mother. ÅgIt would greatly
cheapen their process of extracting gold from the soil. I do not
understand much about it, I must admit.Åh

ÅgMaybe the mining syndicate would give you more for the water than the
desert people?Åh suggested Nat.

ÅgThat would make no difference to us,Åh said his mother, firmly. ÅgIf
Colonel Hardin promised Desert City and the farmers, that Lost River
would flow south, south it shall flow, if they keep their part of the
bargain, and the thing can be done.Åh

ÅgBut,Åh cried Dorothy, Ågcan it be made to flow either way? How
wonderful! It must have a natural channel, mustnÅft it?Åh

ÅgSo I suppose,Åh replied Aunt Winnie. ÅgThere seems to be more to the
matter than we know about--yet. Mr. Philo Marsh gave us very few
particulars.Åh

ÅgI am sure that _he_ is not a very trustworthy informant,Åh declared
Dorothy, obstinately, to Tavia. ÅgWe must watch Mr. Philo Marsh.Åh

ÅgAnd you objected before because I just looked at him!Åh breathed Tavia,
making very big eyes at her chum.

While they were indulging in these surmises the rattling old stagecoach
had been mounting the rise toward the Hardin ranch-house. Finally Jos?
shouted to the mustangs again and they sprang forward in what Nat
called Åga grandstand finish,Åh stopping with a flourish before the
front of the house.

There was nobody on the wide veranda to greet them, but beyond was a
group of less important buildings, and from these came running several
people.

First came Hank Ledger, the foreman of the ranch, to whom Mrs. White
had a letter of introduction from the lawyers. With him was his wife--a
handsome, buxom woman, who came with floury arms and an apron on, being
in the midst of preparations for supper for her husband and the hands.

Two Mexicans appeared, too, who greeted Jos? Morale, the stage driver,
in his own language. Last of all came a very pretty, dark and rosy
girl, younger than Dorothy and Tavia in years, yet with something
indefinably Åggrown-upÅh about her. The girl cast alternately shy looks
at the visitors and at Jos? Morale, with whom, later, Dorothy saw her
talking very intimately in a secluded corner.

Just then, however, Dorothy was more interested in seeing the interior
of the ranch-house that was to be their home for the next few weeks.
The door was open and with Tavia she entered, while Mrs. White talked
with Mr. and Mrs. Ledger on the veranda.




CHAPTER XIV

ÅgTHE SNAKE IN THE GRASSÅh


ÅgGoodness me, Doro! did you ever see so much out-of-doors before in all
your life? IsnÅft the world awfully _big_?Åh

Tavia was at the window of the large room in which the girls slept, on
the second morning of their stay at the ranch-house and she had not
begun to dress. This big world that she was looking out at, seemed just
now deserted.

There were miles upon miles of rolling country to north, east, and
south. In the early light this vast expanse of out-of-doors was colored
in many hues--and the hues were ever changing. The wall of mountains to
the west, which shut off their view seemed so near that Tavia declared
she could run over to them before breakfast!

ÅgYou might before breakfast, but not before breakfast time!Åh laughed
Dorothy. ÅgMr. Ledger says itÅfs two daysÅf ride on a good pony to that
huge rock that we see standing up there so clearly.Åh

ÅgI suppose so. Lost River is over that way, too. The foreman says that
most of this rolling country we see belongs to the Hardin estate.Åh

ÅgWhat a huge, huge place it is!Åh sighed Dorothy. ÅgAnd what will we ever
do with it all?Åh

ÅgNed wants to raise cattle on it,Åh chuckled Tavia, Ågbut I believe Nat
would rather raise mischief.Åh

Dorothy did not pay attention to this. She was gazing afar, and said
very quietly:

ÅgMr. Ledger says the land is rich enough to raise anything.Åh

ÅgDonÅft you believe all your hear--and not more than half of what you
_see_,Åh said her chum, philosophically. ÅgAppearances are deceitful.
ThatÅfs like the little girl who lost her penny.Åh

ÅgWhat little girl?Åh demanded Dorothy, dreamily.

ÅgOh! it might have been _any_ little girl--who was sharp,Åh chuckled
Tavia. ÅgAt any rate a fine, handsome, benevolent old party comes along
the street and finds the ragged little girl crying, and asked in that
benevolent tone that goes with a white vest and gold-headed cane:

ÅgÅeWhatÅfs the matter, my little dear? What are you crying for?Åf

ÅgÅeIÅfve lost my penny,Åf says the kid.

ÅgÅeNever mind! never mind!Åf says the old gentleman, reaching into his
pocket. ÅeHere is a penny,Åf and he hands her one. The kid looks up at
him and sees right through the game. Says she:

ÅgÅeWhy! you horrid man! you had it all the time, didnÅft you?Åf And the
next time,Åh chuckled Tavia, Åghe will go right along about his business
and not try to play Santa Claus to young ladies to whom he has not been
introduced.Åh

Dorothy laughed at her chumÅfs little story, and said: ÅgI guess most
appearances are deceitful. At least, Aunt Winnie says you mustnÅft form
an opinion upon mere looks--so that gives _me_ a chance to point a
moral, and adorn a tale.Åh

ÅgThere was Pat, who was a coal heaver, coming home and finding that the
children had been using his Ancient Order of Hibernian regalia-hat to
bring home coals in. ÅeMary Ann! Mary Ann! Phy do youse let thim kids do
that?Åf holding up the maltreated high hat. ÅeIÅfve told youse before--I
donÅft like it!Åf

ÅgÅeShure, Pat,Åf says she, Åephat harm does it be doinÅf? A little more
coaldust wonÅft hurt yez.Åf

ÅgÅeThat may be thrue, woman,Åf says Pat, Åebut yez donÅft see the point.
When I wear the hat out, shure, anÅf take it off, it laves a black
mar-r-k around me forehead. AnÅf wotÅfs thÅf consekences?Åf demands Pat,
warmly. ÅeShure it gits me accused of washinÅf me face with me hat on!ÅfÅh

Tavia ran out of the room. Both girls were well acquainted with the
house now. It had most modern improvements and Colonel Hardin,
although he was a man of no family, had entertained largely and
believed in having all the comforts attainable. A huge windmill pumped
water for the house and stables, for _this_ was not the desert, and a
vein of water could be tapped something like a hundred and fifty feet
below the surface.

Hank Ledger had told the girls when they inquired that this vein of
water was supposed to be a branch of Lost River, which plunged into the
earth so many miles away in the low hills to the west.

ÅgTell yuh what!Åh croaked the foreman, who seemed to be a bird of
ill-omen, Ågef that thar river is ever turned out onto the desert, as I
tolÅf the old KernÅh (Colonel) Ågwhen he was alive, ye air goinÅf tuh shut
off yuh own water supply right yere. Now! yuh hear me shoutinÅf!Åh

ÅgDo you suppose that is so?Åh asked Tavia of Dorothy.

ÅgMrs. Ledger says Hank doesnÅft know. SheÅfs a real jolly woman,
and declares that Hank canÅft see anything but worry and trouble
ahead of him. She says heÅfd prophesy another Deluge if there was a
summer shower, and a seven-year drouth if the sun shone two days in
succession!Åh

ÅgBut weÅfre going to know something about Lost River to-day--hooray!Åh
cried Tavia.

It had been decided that the party would explore the wilder part of
the estate--some of it, at least--on this day. Hank was to be their
leader, and the young folk and Mrs. White were to mount ponies and see
all that there was to be seen between an early breakfast and suppertime.

The boys were already--early as was the hour--down in the corral
picking out the ponies they were to ride. Neither Nat nor Ned wanted
Åghobby horsesÅh; but as big Hank let them have their own choice in the
matter, the boys got several falls before they selected ponies that
were both spirited and well trained. Naturally the foreman selected the
mounts for the girls and Mrs. White, himself.

Mrs. Ledger had undertaken the cooking for the party at the big house,
for it was hard to get even Mexican women at short notice. The girls
dusted and ridded up the house every morning, early.

As for old John Dempsey, he came out strong! He proved to be just the
person needed about the Hardin ranch. He was general handy man, indoors
and out, and was on this morning engaged in cleaning up the rooms that
Colonel Hardin had used as his office. In the corner was a great heap
of papers and rubbish that had been cleared out of the old ColonelÅfs
desk after his death, and which the lawyers had examined.

As Dorothy came through the hall she peered in and saw the old man
sorting this rubbish. He turned with a shining face and held out a
yellowed paper towards her.

ÅgMiss Dorothy! Miss Dorothy! see here, will ye? Be my eyes deceivinÅf
me? Shure, I feel like a fairy had led me by the hand into this place.Åh

Dorothy was both amazed and anxious at his earnestness. She ran forward
and took the paper which he put reverently into her hand.

It was a letter, and written in a peculiarly long, angular hand. At the
bottom was the unforgettable signature, ÅgA. Lincoln.Åh

Dorothy gasped, looked back at the old man with shining eyes, and then
devoured the letter:

                                              ÅgEXECUTIVE MANSION,
                                      ÅgWashington, Nov. 21, 1864.

  ÅgTO MRS. BIXBY,
      ÅgBoston, Mass.

  ÅgDear Madam: I have been shown in the files of the War Department
  a statement of the Adjutant General of Massachusetts that you are
  the mother of five sons who have died gloriously on the field of
  battle.

  ÅgI feel how weak and fruitless must be any word of mine which
  would attempt to beguile you from the grief of a loss so
  overwhelming. But I cannot refrain from tendering you the
  consolation that may be found in the thanks of the Republic
  they died to save. I pray that Our Heavenly Father may assuage
  the anguish of your bereavement and leave you only the cherished
  memory of the loved and lost and the solemn pride that must
  be yours to have laid so costly a sacrifice upon the altar of
  freedom.

                        ÅgYours very sincerely and respectfully,
                                                    ÅgA. LINCOLN.Åh

ÅgOh, Mr. Dempsey! is it real?Åh cried Dorothy.

ÅgIt is that, MaÅfam,Åh he said, confidently. ÅgHe that was President--and
the finest gentleman that ever lived--wrote that letter to a poor
widow. How it come in Colonel HardinÅfs papers, I dunno----Åh

ÅgAnd the lawyers threw it aside. How awful! They were looking only for
stocks, and bonds, and wills, and such,Åh cried Dorothy, eagerly. ÅgYet
that letter from President Lincoln, Mr. Dempsey, must be worth a lot of
money, too. And you found it, Mr. Dempsey! ItÅfs yours.Åh

ÅgOh, no, MaÅfam. Your aunt----Åh

ÅgWould never lay claim to it, I am sure. And if the letter is worth
money----Åh

ÅgWhatÅfs this thatÅfs worth money, Miss?Åh asked a suave voice behind her.
Dorothy Dale turned to see the smiling Mr. Philo Marsh in dusty riding
clothes standing, hat in hand, behind her.

ÅgGood morning, Miss!Åh he said, with a sweeping bow. ÅgI chanced to
overhear you. WhatÅfs the old fellow found?Åh and he stretched forth a
bold hand and took the letter.

ÅgIt belongs to Mr. Dempsey,Åh said Dorothy, with chilling directness. ÅgI
shall tell Aunt Winnie you are here, sir.Åh

ÅgOh! donÅft let me hurry her,Åh said the man.

His sharp eyes were fixed upon the letter as Dorothy turned away to go
to her auntÅfs room. When she returned a little later, Mr. Philo Marsh
had settled himself in a chair on the veranda to await Mrs. White. John
Dempsey beckoned her into the office and closed the door.

ÅgHave a care of that fellow, Miss,Åh he whispered. ÅgHeÅfs a snake in the
grass.Åh

ÅgWhy do you say so?Åh asked the girl.

ÅgThe rascal offered me fifty dollars for the letter from President
Lincoln.Åh

ÅgOh, Mr. Dempsey! that is a lot of money.Åh

ÅgWhy, Miss Dale! if the letter was mine to sell, I wouldnÅft part wiÅf
it for a fortune. Poor I may be,Åh said old John Dempsey, reverently,
Ågbut never poor enough to sell a scrap of writinÅf in the hand of the
greatest hearted and tenderest man this country ever seen--no, MaÅfam!Åh




CHAPTER XV

EXPLORING


There was double excitement at the breakfast table that morning. Not
only were the young folk eager to get away on the trip of exploration
planned the day before; but old John DempseyÅfs find among the discarded
papers in the office excited them.

The letter written in LincolnÅfs angular hand was passed from one to
the other. Mrs. White of course agreed with Dorothy that the letter
belonged to the Grand Army man.

ÅgHe shall certainly have it--to keep, or to sell,Åh she said.

ÅgYour prot?g? is turning out pretty well, Dot,Åh said Ned. ÅgAnd if he
keeps on finding valuable letters like that, heÅfll soon be as rich as
the other ÅeJohn D.Åf Some collectors would give a round sum for this
letter.Åh

ÅgHeÅfs already had one offer,Åh Dorothy said, hesitatingly.

ÅgWhat!Åh cried Tavia. ÅgYou never offered to buy it?Åh

ÅgCertainly not. And Mr. Dempsey says he wouldnÅft sell.Åh Then she
related what the old man had said regarding Philo Marsh.

ÅgÅeSnake in the grass!ÅfÅh exclaimed Tavia. ÅgThatÅfs just what he is.Åh

ÅgHush,Åh said Aunt Winnie. ÅgThe man is really bothering me a good deal.
He has gone off with Mr. Ledger to breakfast. I did not care to invite
him in here----Åh

ÅgI should hope not!Åh exclaimed Ned.

ÅgWell, I am free to confess,Åh said his mother, thoughtfully, Ågthat I do
not know just how to treat Mr. Marsh. He tried to have me invite him to
ride with us to-day; but I do not want him.Åh

ÅgYou say the word, mother,Åh said Nat, belligerently, Ågand Ned and I
will send him to the right-about-face.Åh

Mrs. White laughed. ÅgOh, I fancy he is not very dangerous, my boy.Åh

ÅgThen, if thatÅfs the case,Åh added Nat, grinning, Ågwhy not sick Tavia
onto him?Åh

ÅgNathaniel!Åh

ÅgYou horrid thing!Åh exclaimed Tavia, perfectly able to fight her own
battles with the boys. ÅgYou talk as though I might be a bulldog.Åh

ÅgYouÅfre a sight more dangerous,Åh chuckled Nat. ÅgIf you once rolled
those big eyes of yours at Philo--as you did at that cowboy, Lance, for
instance----Åh

ÅgNathaniel!Åh exclaimed his mother again. ÅgI am ashamed of you.Åh

ÅgYouÅfd have been ashamed of Tavia if youÅfd seen her,Åh grunted the young
fellow.

That was the beginning of a tiff between Tavia and Nat. ÅgYou wait, Mr.
Smartie!Åh she whispered, giving him a vicious pinch as he passed her
chair. ÅgIÅfll get square with you for saying that.Åh

But afterward, when she and Dorothy were together, the latter spoke
seriously to her chum.

ÅgYou must have a care, my dear. Aunt Winnie would be horrified if she
knew you were in the least flirtatious with these men----Åh

ÅgWhat men?Åh demanded Tavia, with some anger.

ÅgLance Petterby, weÅfll say. If he comes here with his mother, you
behave.Åh

ÅgOh, youÅfre a regular Grandmother Grunt. And IÅfll fix Nat for saying
that to his mother, see if I donÅft.Åh

Tavia was, indeed, quite vexed, and they were several miles from the
ranch house that forenoon before she became her jolly irresponsible
self.

Before noon the exploring party had seen much of the range and
pasturage. Hank Ledger said even after this drouth the pasture could
well support ten thousand steers.

ÅgBut we ainÅft had that many critters on the ranch for ten year. Cattle
ainÅft what they was--no sir! WeÅfve got a couple of thousand, and
thatÅfs full and plenty. I reckon, Miz White, you wonÅft want to increase
the number much?Åh

ÅgWe shall talk about that later,Åh said the lady. ÅgAt present I want to
see about this water privilege.Åh

ÅgAll right, MaÅfam. IÅfll take you right up there, and we can eat our
snack beside Lost River.Åh

ÅgThat sounds very romantic,Åh said Tavia.

ÅgEspecially the eating part,Åh laughed Dorothy. ÅgRiding _does_ give one
such an appetite.Åh

Ledger escorted them into the low hills. Soon they were riding up a
sharply inclined gully, and reached higher land. The woods grew denser.
Ahead the murmur of falling water soon rose to a steady volume of sound
which, although it did not deafen them, made a background for all other
noises.

Huge boulders cropped out of the thin soil. The trees were not tall,
but were standing in very thick groups. In some places the ponies
pushed through thickets that seemed to be almost impassable.

At last a plateau was reached--several hundred feet higher than the
knoll upon which the ranch-house stood--and at once, when they came
into the clear, Dorothy and Tavia broke into a simultaneous cry of
surprise and delight.

Sweeping across this level plain, directly toward them, came a broad,
silver stream. Small groves of soft-barked trees fringed its banks.
Here and there a boulder intruded, around the base of which the
otherwise peaceful river boiled and sprayed the rock with foam.

All the surface of the stream was sparkling as though the banks
actually brimmed with molten silver. Such a refreshing looking mountain
stream Dorothy had never before seen--or one-half so beautiful.

Just in front of the cavalcade a veil of mist rose some twenty feet
into the air. In this mist the sunshine played delightfully, lending
itself to a dozen different rainbows.

The almost impalpable moisture drifted across a stretch of grass, as
green as it could be--a veritable fairy lawn. The curtain of mist hid
from them what appeared to be the abrupt ending of the river.

ÅgWhat a marvel!Åh gasped Dorothy. ÅgWhy! Mr. Ledger! where does the water
go?Åh

Ledger grinned and wheeled his horse aside, following a distinct path
which approached the nearer bank of the stream. The spray swept over
them for a moment, and then they came out above it, and upon the steep
bank.

Right beside them was a narrow chasm in the rock--a yawning gulf the
full width of the stream which was here all of twenty yards across.
Into this opening in the earth the river plunged.

ÅgLost River, indeed!Åh cried Dorothy, looking back at the others, with
shining eyes. ÅgDid you ever see anything so wonderful, Aunt Winnie?Åh

A deep, thunderous murmur, like the bass notes of a great organ, came
up from the depths. The perfectly clear water advanced to the lip of
rock over which it flowed, falling into the chasm with scarcely a
ripple. But the spray rising in so thick a cloud showed that the volume
of water must strike some ledge not far below the surface of the plain,
from which it caromed against the wall of the crevice.

ÅgSay! this is some river,Åh said Nat, in awe.

ÅgHow beautiful!Åh repeated Dorothy.

The foreman told them that the stream was fed above by numberless
mountain springs, and had never been known to go dry.

ÅgSuch a waste of good water!Åh exclaimed Tavia. ÅgNo wonder those people
in the desert want it. Why, it ought to make the desert blossom like
the rose! ThatÅfs poetry, I want you to notice. But goodness! I wonÅft
do a thing to those sandwiches and the coffee--when Mr. Ledger gets it
made.Åh




CHAPTER XVI

IN THE GORGE


They went up the bank of the river afoot after luncheon. Ledger walked
with Aunt Winnie, explaining as they went the scheme of changing the
riverÅfs course. The young folk ran on ahead.

They came to a narrow reef of rock which hemmed in the river on this
westerly side. On the left hand they looked down into a deep gorge.
Here, by blowing out the rock-wall which was not more than ten yards
across, the river would plunge into the gorge which cut through the
plateau toward the south.

This was the natural channel that had been spoken of. At the mouth of
the gorge, the foreman said, a dam could be built at a comparatively
small expense, which would hold an enormous amount of water in reserve.

The tentative agreement between Colonel Hardin and the Desert people
included the building of this dam at the expense of the subscribers for
the water. The intention was to dig a great ditch from the mouth of the
gorge across the plain, with branch ditches and gates for the farmers,
the main ditch carrying the water to the outskirts of Desert City.

There a pumping station was to be established and the water piped into
the town. The irrigation work and all would occupy at least two years,
and cost a good deal of money, but the result, as Tavia had suggested,
would be to Ågmake the desert blossom like the rose.Åh

Mrs. White would travel no farther than this reef at the head of the
gorge, but the young folk were bent upon a real exploring expedition.
She gave her consent for them to go on, and Ned and Nat found a path
which led down the nigh bank of the deep hollow.

The trees that had struck root into this rocky soil were scrubby
looking things and there were not many of them, but there was a deal of
brush and briers.

ÅgSuppose this was an old Indian path?Åh proposed Nat to his brother,
when they were at the bottom of the steep descent.

ÅgMore likely made by wild animals,Åh was the reply.

ÅgWhew!Åh exclaimed Nat, his eyes twinkling. ÅgMaybe it leads to a bearÅfs
den.Åh

ÅgNow stop, Nat White!Åh commanded Tavia. ÅgYou are trying to scare us.Åh

[Illustration: OUT OF THE CREVICE PROTRUDED THE UPPER LENGTH OF A
RATTLESNAKE. _Dorothy Dale in the West Page 150_]

ÅgDonÅft listen to him, Tavia,Åh said Dorothy. ÅgThere are no wild animals
near here. Mr. Ledger didnÅft even bring a gun.Åh

ÅgItÅfs supposed to be a game preserve, isnÅft it?Åh demanded Nat. ÅgAnd
arenÅft bears game?Åh

ÅgIf you should see one youÅfd be the bearÅfs game,Åh sniffed Dorothy.
ÅgYouÅfd run.Åh

ÅgSure I would,Åh admitted Nat. ÅgIÅfd rather a good deal folks would say
of me, ÅeSee him run!Åf than ÅeHere he lies.ÅfÅh

ÅgI suppose there _are_ some wild beasts deeper in these hills--and on
Colonel HardinÅfs property,Åh Ned said, thoughtfully.

ÅgWhat kind of beasts?Åh demanded Tavia, sharply.

ÅgOh--bears, and wolves, and panthers, and the like.Åh

ÅgThatÅfs enough!Åh declared Tavia, stopping short. ÅgIÅfve gone far enough.
LetÅfs climb up again, Doro.Åh

ÅgBut I want to see what the gulch looks like,Åh objected Dorothy, who
had little belief in NatÅfs wild animal scare.

ÅgÅfFraid-cat!Åh sing-songed Nat, grinning.

ÅgNo. IÅfve gone far enough. IÅfm tired,Åh said Tavia, decisively. ÅgIÅfm
going to sit right down here on this rock. IÅfll wait for you if a wild
bear doesnÅft come along and chase me back up the hill.Åh

ÅgWild bear, your grandmother!Åh said Nat, with disgust.

ÅgCome on, Dot,Åh Ned said to his cousin. ÅgIÅfm glad you havenÅft lost your
pluck.Åh

ÅgYouÅfll lose more than that if you see a bear,Åh advised Tavia.

ÅgI donÅft believe thereÅfs a thing to hurt us in this place, and I want
to see,Åh repeated Dorothy Dale.

The trio went on, but they did not really believe Tavia would remain
far behind them. ÅgSheÅfs up to some trick,Åh Nat announced.

ÅgI believe youÅfre right,Åh agreed Dorothy, but when they had gone at
least half a mile down the gorge, and the irrepressible Tavia had not
overtaken them, Dorothy began frequently to look back.

Åg_What_ do you suppose she is doing?Åh she repeated, greatly puzzled.

ÅgOh, she is up to something. You know Tavia,Åh responded Ned, carelessly.

At last Dorothy said: ÅgIÅfm going back. I am worried about Tavia.Åh

ÅgNonsense!Åh cried Nat. ÅgSheÅfs gone back to join mother, I bet you.Åh

ÅgBetting never proved anything yet, little boy,Åh laughed Dorothy. ÅgYou
boys can go on if you like. But itÅfs no fun without Tavia.Åh

She started back briskly; the boys started more slowly. ÅgHuh!Åh grunted
Nat, ÅgTavia isnÅft often a Åespoil sport.Åf I donÅft see whatÅfs gotten
into her to-day.Åh

Dorothy did not run, but she lost no time and was some distance ahead
of her cousins when she came in sight of the rocks where Tavia had
seated herself.

Her chum was still there. When Dorothy shouted to her Tavia did not
look her way. The rock was a low, flat-topped boulder with a crack
across the middle of it. Tavia seemed to be looking at something before
her on the rock.

ÅgWhat have you found there, Tavia?Åh cried Dorothy. ÅgIt must be
something tremendously interesting.Åh

Still her chum did not move--nor make reply. As though she were posing
for her picture, the young girl sat motionless. Dorothy could not see
her face at the angle from which she was advancing. But something about
TaviaÅfs attitude finally startled her.

ÅgWhat is the matter?Åh screamed Dorothy Dale, suddenly bounding forward.

She could run as well as any boy. Her gymnasium work at Glenwood, and
her vacations out-of-doors, had made Dorothy hardy and strong. She
dashed forward over the rough way, crying out again and again as she
saw that her chum still sat stonily.

Dorothy leaped up beside her and would have--the next moment--seized
Tavia by the shoulder. But there, with her hand outstretched, she
halted. The intake of her breath sounded harsh in her own ears. She saw
what had paralyzed Tavia--and the horrid object nearly froze Dorothy,
too, in her tracks.

Out of the crevice in the rock protruded the arrow-headed upper length
of a rattlesnake. It was coiled less than two feet below the level of
TaviaÅfs face, and its tail was a-quiver. The whir of the rattles is a
dreaded sound that, once heard, is never to be forgotten.

There the reptile stretched itself, its eyes fairly holding Tavia
charmed. Of course, it was the girlÅfs own nerves that held her
motionless and speechless--her nerves affected by fear.

Tavia could neither rise to escape the threatened stroke of the
rattler, nor do aught to defend herself from it. The immediate neck of
the creature was curved back, and the pointed head, with the swiftly
shooting tongue, threatened instant attack.

Dorothy felt a dreadful tightening about her heart--just as though a
savage hand had gripped it. She felt as though she would faint--yet she
knew she must not give way to such weakness.

On her depended her chumÅfs very life!

She glanced about for some weapon. There was no stick within her reach
of sufficient weight to be of use. But there were pebbles and broken
bits of rock scattered over the ground.

She seized the nearest heavy piece of rock. She dared not pitch it at
the snake--the chance of missing the target was too great. But with the
dornick in both hands she crept one--two--three steps toward the rock.
The missile was poised over her head. It was all that Dorothy Dale
could hold steadily.

Down came the heavy piece of rock, just as the rattlesnake darted its
head forward. Its diamond pointed head had been on a level with TaviaÅfs
chin, for it was a huge fellow.

Dorothy had stopped it in midflight. Scared she most certainly was--her
very soul seemed filled with horror of the poisonous creature. But
Dorothy Dale could not fail her chum in this time of awful peril.

She struck the snake down. Its head and the upper part of its writhing
body was smashed under the rock Dorothy held. She had put her whole
force into the blow and she fell across the rock and the coiling and
uncoiling snake just as the boys came whooping and yelling into view.

As for Tavia, she went quietly off into a faint, and she did not revive
until Ned and Nat carried her up the steep path and laid her down
beside Lost River, from which water was taken to bathe her wrists and
brow.




CHAPTER XVII

FLORES


ÅgI never want to hear even a babyÅfs rattle again,Åh sobbed Tavia, after
she and Dorothy were alone in their room at the ranch house. ÅgAnything
from the rattle of a dry seed in a pod to a load of bricks being dumped
on a cement walk, will remind me of that dreadful snake.

ÅgWhy, I had a little stick in my hand, and I poked it into that crack
in the rock to see if there was anything there, and up darted that
rattlerÅfs head!

ÅgOh, dear, me, Doro! if you hadnÅft come as you did, I would have been
bitten all to pieces!Åh

ÅgNonsense!Åh laughed Dorothy. ÅgA snake isnÅft a bulldog. It wouldnÅft have
chewed you up. But they _are_ dangerous.Åh

ÅgPoisonous! And I didnÅft have the strength to move, I was so
frightened. YouÅfve always helped me out of messes, Doro Doodlebug! but
this time you saved my life,Åh and Tavia seized her chum in her arms. ÅgI
hope IÅfll be able to do something _big_ for you some day to pay you up
a little, wee mite!Åh

ÅgYou poor child!Åh Dorothy said, tenderly. ÅgDonÅft talk such perfectly
nonsensical stuff. I did no more for you than you would have done for
me in like circumstances.Åh

ÅgI know all about _that_,Åh said Tavia, wiping her eyes. ÅgBut youÅfd
never get into such a silly scrape, and so give me a chance. I _do_ get
into such perfect bunches of trouble, Doro. Life, for me, seems to be
just one silly scrape after another!Åh

By morning, however, Tavia had put the lesson of her adventure into the
background. There was so much to do and see on the ranch that she could
not really spend the time in thinking of a rattlesnake that was already
dead!

The four young folk rode hard with one of the Mexicans that day.
Dorothy and Tavia were rather shy of the long, wicked looking horns and
the tossing heads and flashing eyes of the cattle, so gave them a wide
berth. Ned and Nat began practising throwing the rope, and displayed a
deeper interest in the cattle business than the girls could possibly
feel.

Dorothy and Tavia thought the Mexican rather a villainous looking
fellow, too--not at all like the handsome Jos? Morale, who had driven
them over from Dugonne, so after a while they rode back toward the home
corral, leaving Ned and Nat to go on to the second herd without them.

The girls had, by this time, no fear of the ponies they bestrode. Both
were well broken steeds without any vicious characteristics. As they
drew near the end of the first shed, DorothyÅfs mount Ågside-steppedÅh
unexpectedly and the girl was almost thrown.

ÅgDid you see it?Åh demanded Tavia, hastily.

ÅgI didnÅft see anything, but the pony evidently did,Åh laughed Dorothy,
fearlessly. ÅgWhat was it, Tavia?Åh

ÅgThat Mexican girl popped right out from behind that shed, and then
popped back again. No wonder your pony jumped. She dresses like a
Fourth of July celebration. I never did see such gay colors combined in
a girlÅfs dress in all my life.Åh

ÅgFlores, you mean?Åh

ÅgIs that her name?Åh asked Tavia.

ÅgSo Mrs. Ledger told me,Åh said Dorothy. ÅgFlores helps the foremanÅfs
wife. She is an orphan. Her parents died of smallpox in a squatterÅfs
cabin a few miles out in the desert, last year.Åh

ÅgGoodness, Doro! how much you know about her already. Is she going to
be your next prot?g?e?Åh demanded Tavia.

ÅgWell,Åh confessed Dorothy, ÅgI was interested in her at once. And do you
know why?Åh

ÅgJust because you are always interested in everybody and everything,
Doro Doodlekins. I never did see such a girl,Åh repeated Tavia.

ÅgOh! I had a real reason,Åh rejoined Dorothy, laughing. ÅgYou see,
she is not as old as you and I, Tavia, yet I saw her talking very
confidentially with that Mexican driver, Jos?.Åh

ÅgOh, _him_? Do you blame her?Åh chuckled Tavia. ÅgWhat wonderfully white
teeth he has--and just a _love_ of a mustache!Åh

Dorothy made a little face at her. ÅgYou are incorrigible, Tavia,Åh she
groaned. ÅgI am interested in Flores, not in that driver.Åh

ÅgWell, you spoke of him,Åh insisted Tavia. Åg_I_ didnÅft bring him--and
his mustache--into the conversation.Åh

ÅgI wondered if FloresÅf folks--if she had any--approved of her talking
with the man,Åh continued Dorothy, ignoring her chumÅfs flippancy. ÅgAnd
what do you think?Åh

ÅgShe is going to run away with him like Molly Crater did with _her_
young man!Åh ejaculated the romantic Tavia.

ÅgDo be sensible!Åh exclaimed Dorothy, with disgust. ÅgMolly Crater is
nineteen--she was of age in this state. I wish youÅfd listen----Åh

ÅgOfficer! sheÅfs in again!Åh interrupted Tavia. ÅgSee! that Mex. girl is
beckoning to you, Doro.Åh

ÅgNo! she canÅft mean _me_?Åh

ÅgIÅfm sure she isnÅft after me,Åh said Tavia. ÅgIÅfve never said ten words
to her, for she canÅft speak English. I found _that_ out.Åh

Flores had appeared again at the far corner of the long shed they were
passing. She _did_ gesture for Dorothy to come to her.

ÅgIÅfm going!Åh declared Dorothy. ÅgYou take my pony on to the corral,
Tavia.Åh

She was out of the saddle as soon as she had spoken and tossed the
bridle-reins to her friend. Flores popped out of sight again, but
Dorothy followed her around the corner of the shed.

At this corner Dorothy saw the Mexican girl dodging around the next
corner, but quickly Flores led her to an empty shed and there turned,
waiting for her. All the sheds appeared to be empty, for the horse
wrangler had driven all the ponies out to pasture, and there was no
cattle here save a few calves bawling their heads off in a pen.

ÅgYou wish to talk to me?Åh asked Dorothy, puzzled, but smiling at the
younger girl.

ÅgI no spÅfak mooch Inglese,Åh said Flores, softly. ÅgYou come?Åh

She seized DorothyÅfs hand and drew her gently away. ÅgCome where?Åh asked
the Eastern girl.

ÅgWiz me,Åh and Flores pointed to herself. ÅgI no spÅfak, but I leeston.
You leeston, too.Åh

ÅgListen?Åh

Flores nodded her head vigorously. ÅgThey talk--you leeston.Åh

She still dragged at DorothyÅfs hand. The fact that the Mexican girl
wished her to play eavesdropper did not at first enter DorothyÅfs mind.
She went with Flores wonderingly.

Her guide led the way surely between the rows of sheds. Keeping well
away from the bunkhouse and paddock, where there were likely to be
loiterers, Flores skillfully chose a way in which Mrs. Ledger could not
possibly see them from her doorway.

When Colonel Hardin had really made cattle raising a business, there
were often ten thousand steers at the home corral, besides hundreds of
ponies. Corrals and sheds occupied several hundred acres.

With a finger on her lip, Flores looked back to see that the American
girl was following closely. Dorothy heard voices--menÅfs voices. At
first she did not recognize them.

The Mexican girl led her close behind a slab wall and silently pointed
to a crevice. At the moment there was not a sound beyond the wall, and
Dorothy tiptoed to it and peered through the crack.

There sat Hank Ledger, the foreman of the ranch, and Philo Marsh. Both
were smoking and they were evidently having an earnest conference.

Dorothy looked back at Flores questioningly, and the Mexican girl
nodded with emphasis. She had brought Dorothy here that the latter
might ÅgleestonÅh to these two men. But Dorothy had no intention of doing
such a thing.

Of course, Flores knew no better. The puzzling fact that Flores wished
Dorothy to listen to Hank and Marsh was a secondary consideration in
the Glenwood girlÅfs mind in the first flush of her discovery. She
turned swiftly again to shake her head angrily at the girl, when Philo
Marsh spoke:

ÅgWhy, you know very well what will happen here, Hank. This woman is
just a plain fool. SheÅfll get to sticking her nose into everything,
and youÅfll soon be hunting another job. And it wonÅft be at a hundred a
month, neither!

ÅgYou might as well pad your pocket a little against your fall. ItÅfs
cominÅf tuh yuh--and a good, hard bump it will be, too.Åh

ÅgI dunno that,Åh growled Hank.

ÅgThen youÅfre the only one around here who _donÅft_ know it. ItÅfs cominÅf
tuh yuh,Åh he repeated.

ÅgI kalkerlate this Mrs. White is a mighty able lady,Åh said Hank, slowly.

ÅgPah!Åh sneered Philo Marsh. ÅgSheÅfs nawthinÅf of the kind. And her
brother-in-law is all crippled up and canÅft git out yere. Anyway, no
two ways about it, weÅfre goinÅf to beat Åfem. You better come in with us,
_pronto_. You donÅft have to do nawthinÅf but keep your mouth shut. We
want the water, and weÅfre goinÅf to have it--thatÅfs all.Åh

Before Philo Marsh had spoken a dozen words Dorothy had a change of
heart! The scoundrelÅfs coarse remark about Aunt Winnie was sufficient
to hold the girl at her post and fix her attention, and her anger and
interest both grew exceedingly as the talk between the two men
continued.

Just what Philo Marsh meant--why he should speak as he did--what
advantage he proposed to take of her father and Aunt Winnie--Dorothy
did not know. But she proposed to stay right there until she heard all
that they said upon the subject, hoping that such eavesdropping would
repay her--and believing that it was excusable in such a cause.




CHAPTER XVIII

OPHELIA COMES VISITING


ÅgWill you please tell me, Doro Doodlekins, just why everything in my
trunk is mismates? I believe I have half a pair of everything I own in
the world with me, and the other half is at home!Åh

Dorothy giggled, deep in the mysteries of her own toilette.

ÅgIf I wore spectacles,Åh pursued the complaining Tavia. ÅgIÅfd have only
half a pair with me. And half a pair of scissors would be my fate if
I owned scissors. If I wore false teeth, IÅfd be able to find only the
upper set.Åh

ÅgYou packed the trunk yourself,Åh mumbled Dorothy, with pins in her
mouth.

ÅgI never!Åh denied Tavia. ÅgI was so excited over the prospect of coming
West that I just threw the first things that came handy into my trunk.
When it was overflowing I jumped on the lid to make it lock, and--there
you are! At least, it looks as though I did just that when it comes to
finding things.Åh

ÅgPoor Tavia Trouble-ty-bubble!Åh cooed Dorothy.

ÅgYes,Åh admitted her chum. ÅgLook!Åh with desperation.

She held up two stockings--they never could have made a pair of Åghose,Åh
for one was white while the other was flesh color.

ÅgSee what I am reduced to,Åh continued the irrepressible. ÅgIf I wear
them with pumps folks will think IÅfm mismated, too! Whatever shall I
do, Doro?Åh

There was company expected at the Hardin ranch-house and the girls were
Ågdolling up,Åh as Nat called it, in honor of old Mrs. Petterby and Lance.

ÅgWear black ones,Åh answered the practical Dorothy.

ÅgOh, but black isnÅft fashionable--and certainly not with white pumps,Åh
said Tavia, sadly.

ÅgI cannot advise you, then,Åh said Dorothy. ÅgAnd, anyway, Tavia, you
always talk so fast that nobody ever looks at your feet.Åh

ÅgBut--when IÅfm silent?Åh demanded Tavia.

ÅgWhen is that?Åh demanded her friend, laughing.

ÅgThe unkindest cut of all! But I tell you what IÅfll do,Åh added Tavia,
slowly. ÅgI will bind an emergency bandage around one ankle, and put the
flesh colored stocking on that foot. Then it will look the same color
as the white one. ÅeAh-ha!Åf says the villain. ÅeI am avenged! Down to
your doom, Jack Dalton!ÅfÅh

And she sat right down on the floor and proceeded to do this, to
DorothyÅfs vast amusement.

The girls were scarcely dressed when a buckboard, drawn by a pair of
half broken ponies, came into view over the break of the knoll, coming
from the Dugonne trail.

ÅgHere comes Lance!Åh exclaimed Tavia.

ÅgAnd dear old Mrs. Petterby,Åh agreed Dorothy.

ÅgHi!Åh ejaculated Nat, whom the girls had joined on the big front porch.
ÅgWhat has the old lady in her lap, I want to know?Åh

ÅgOh!Åh gasped Dorothy. ÅgHow the ponies gallop. And look at the carriage
hop and bounce. She was nearly thrown out that time. I wish Mr. Lance
wasnÅft so reckless.Åh

ÅgBut sheÅfs hanging to that thing in her lap----Åh

ÅgItÅfs Ophelia, of course,Åh said Tavia. ÅgSheÅfs brought her on a visit,
too.Åh

ÅgWhy not?Åh demanded Dorothy, as the others laughed. ÅgItÅfs the one thing
that connects her with RandÅfs Falls, Massachusetts. I expect without
Ophelia Mrs. Petterby would be very homesick out here in Colorado.Åh

Lance drove up with a flourish. Like most people out in the Colorado
mountains, he seemed to be a very reckless driver. His mother was
quite calm, however; she evidently had perfect confidence in her sonÅfs
ability to handle the ponies, and at the same time take care of her.

The girls ran down the steps to help Mrs. Petterby out of the
buckboard. ÅgSo delighted to see you, dear Mrs. Petterby,Åh cried Dorothy.

ÅgAnd Ophelia,Åh giggled Tavia, reaching out her hands for the basket,
but making big eyes at the cowboy.

ÅgHowdy! howdy!Åh Lance was exclaiming, his face very red under TaviaÅfs
wicked scrutiny. He would not let the girl take the basket, but removed
it from his motherÅfs lap himself. ÅgDonÅft you mind, Miss,Åh he urged.
ÅgIÅfll take this yere along to the bunkhouse, mother. Yuh donÅft want
thet thar little hen with you in Miz WhiteÅfs nice house.Åh

ÅgQuite right, Lance,Åh agreed the old lady, hopping out. ÅgBut you see
that nothing happens to her, son.Åh

ÅgIÅfll take keer of her like she was eggs instead oÅf a chicken,Åh he
assured her, and then gave the impatient ponies their heads. They
dashed away toward the sheds.

Aunt Winnie appeared at the door to welcome the old lady from
Massachusetts, and they bore her into the house and showed her the
room she was to occupy. Lance would bunk with the Ledgers, but he was
coming up to supper.

As Dorothy came back through the wide central hall a little later,
old John Dempsey appeared from the office. He had gotten everything
cleaned up in there, and kept it tidy. Mrs. White was now using Colonel
HardinÅfs old desk as her own.

ÅgMiss Dorothy,Åh whispered the veteran, Ågwhat do you think? That snake
in the grass was after me agin yesterday about that old letter.Åh

Dorothy looked very grave at the mention of Philo Marsh. ÅgWhat does he
want now?Åh she asked.

ÅgHeÅfs after that letter, I tell ye. He offered me sixty dollars for it.
HeÅfs the most persistent critter I ever see. I told him I couldnÅft sell
at no price.Åh

ÅgWait, Mr. Dempsey,Åh said Dorothy. ÅgI wrote father about that letter
the day you found it. I expect to hear from him soon.Åh

ÅgBut I wouldnÅft sell--if Åftis mine _to_ sell, belike,Åh said John
Dempsey, earnestly.

ÅgIt may be worth a lot of money.Åh

ÅgSure, anÅf I donÅft need a lot of money,Åh declared the old soldier. ÅgIÅfm
contint right as I be--as long as your aunt will let me stay.Åh

ÅgAnd you may rest assured that she will let you stay,Åh said Dorothy,
cheerfully. ÅgWhy, Mr. Dempsey, she says you are a lot of help around
the ranch-house.Åh

ÅgÅfTis kind of her to say so,Åh said he, gratefully. ÅgBut I feel mighty
beholden to ye all.Åh

It was because of this brief conversation that Dorothy went down toward
the bunk-house to meet Lance Petterby coming up to supper. Had Tavia
done this, Dorothy would have been scandalized, but Dorothy considered
that she had a good and sufficient reason for what she did.

What old John Dempsey had said reminded Dorothy Dale of the
conversation she had overheard between Philo Marsh and Hank Ledger,
the foreman of the ranch. She had discussed this with nobody--not even
with her chums. It was a secret between the Mexican girl, Flores, and
herself.

Dorothy did not understand what if all meant. Aunt Winnie had not
refused to lease the water-right to the Desert people, and the girl
could not see why Philo Marsh was so anxious to close up the matter and
get Mrs. WhiteÅfs signature to the papers he had prepared.

Nor did his evident attempt to bribe Hank Ledger serve to illuminate
DorothyÅfs mind to any degree. This was a mystery. Philo Marsh--well
named Åga snake in the grassÅh by old John Dempsey--was up to some shrewd
trick.

Dorothy believed Flores knew what it was, but the Mexican girl could
not explain. She understood spoken English well enough, but she could
not speak more than a dozen words herself. Dorothy had, therefore,
determined to talk with Lance Petterby. She remembered seeing Philo
Marsh speak familiarly with Lance in Dugonne--just as Dorothy and her
friends were leaving town on the old stagecoach. Dorothy believed he
was kindly disposed toward her and her aunt. She thought she could
trust him--to a degree. At any rate, she was sure he would tell her
the truth about Marsh.

Lance had unharnessed the ponies and turned them into one of the horse
corrals with a bunch of the Hardin stock. Neither Hank nor the wrangler
was at hand to tell him that the particular bunch in that corral had
just been gathered in off the range and were wilder than his own broncs.

Dorothy saw the cowpuncher from the Double Chain Outfit close the
corral gate and she hurried down to speak to him.

ÅgMr. Petterby,Åh she said, Ågwhat do you know of Mr. Philo Marsh?Åh

ÅgPhilo Marsh, MaÅfam? HeÅfs a left-handed lawyer in Dugonne,Åh drawled the
big cowboy, with a wondering look.

ÅgYes. But what _kind_ of a lawyer? and what kind of a man?Åh

Lance was smiling broadly. ÅgI done told yuh that, Miss Dale, when I
first answered yuh.Åh

ÅgLeft handed?Åh exclaimed Dorothy.

ÅgNow you done said something, MaÅfam.Åh

ÅgYou mean heÅfs not to be trusted?Åh

ÅgNot too fur, MaÅfam--not too fur.Åh

ÅgThen, why have the Desert people who want water from this ranch put
their business into his hands?Åh demanded the girl.

ÅgHave they, Miss Dale?Åh returned Lance, with surprise.

ÅgYes. He comes here and bothers Aunt Winnie a great deal. He came Åfway
East to see her and my father, about these water rights. He was very
anxious then, and is extremely anxious now, to have the papers signed.Åh

ÅgWal, I hear tell Desert City, and them thereabout, are anxious to
git water. But I wouldnÅft have looked for Philo Marsh to lead Åfem to
it--not much. That air is surprising,Åh admitted the cowpuncher.

ÅgWhy does it so surprise you?Åh Dorothy asked, quickly.

ÅgWhy, tuh tell the truth,Åh drawled Lance, ÅgI reckoned Philo would
represent other intÅfrests--if any.Åh

ÅgWhat interests?Åh

ÅgOther people thatÅfs honinÅf for that Lost River supply.Åh

Åg_Are_ there other people who want it?Åh queried Dorothy, earnestly. ÅgI
know Aunt Winnie has been approached by nobody but Mr. Marsh.Åh

ÅgNot by the Ackron Company? The mine people?Åh

ÅgNobody but Mr. Marsh,Åh reiterated Dorothy.

Lance nodded slowly. ÅgThat might be. That might be. ItÅfs well known, I
reckon, that your AÅfnt favors the Desert City folks, just as Colonel
Hardin did?Åh

ÅgI suppose so,Åh Dorothy said. ÅgAnd nobody but Mr. Marsh has come to see
her. He wants to pay down money to bind the bargain.Åh

ÅgWal, Miss Dale,Åh Lance drawled, Ågif Philo Marsh is willing tuh pay out
reÅfl money, he expects tuh git somethinÅf in exchange. He must want the
Lost River water mighty bad.Åh

ÅgAnd in such haste!Åh

ÅgWal,Åh Lance added, ÅgI dunno what they air in a hurry about. The
desertÅfs been thar a right smart oÅf years, anÅf Lost RiverÅfs been
rollinÅf on for an ekal number, itÅfs likely. Tell yuh AÅfnt tuh take her
time,Åh advised Lance, wisely. ÅgWhen a manÅfs in sech an itch tuh close a
deal, moreÅfn likely he has his reasons, anÅf itÅfs jest as well tuh wait
anÅf find out what them reasons air.Åh

He had been approaching the buckboard as he spoke and now lifted down
OpheliaÅfs basket. A hound pup came running from the bunk-house door
and sniffed inquiringly around the basket. Ophelia uttered a squawk of
objection.

The pup started back, sniffed curiously again, and then rolled the
basket over. There was a sudden thunder of hoofs from the far side of
the corral, and raucous squeals rose from the ponies. Dorothy turned,
startled, to see the herd charging straight toward her.

ÅgDonÅft be scart, Miss Dale,Åh shouted Lance Petterby. ÅgThey wonÅft hit
the fence.Åh

The pup had been busy worrying the basket. He broke the string that
held the cover and Ophelia immediately wriggled out. With another
affrighted squawk she scuttled under the lower rail of the fence, into
the corral. Down upon the scared hen came the charging gang of ponies.
She flew right up into the faces of the leaders.

Instead of breaking evenly and swinging either way to escape collision
with the fence, the forefront of the charging herd went up into the air
to escape the fluttering Ophelia and--the next instant--the full weight
of the mob of ponies dashed against the fence!

Strong as the fence was, two lengths went down before the charge and,
squealing with rage and pain, the stampede of ponies burst through.

Dorothy Dale stood, stricken with amazement and horror, directly in the
path of the stampede.




CHAPTER XIX

ÅgÅeWAY UP IN THE MOUNTAIN-TOP, TIP-TOP!Åh


Dorothy realized her peril as the fence crashed. She saw the mad
bronchos boil out of the opening like water bursting through a dam, but
she could not escape.

She found her limbs powerless, and would have sunk to the ground when
she attempted to move, had not Lance leaped forward and swept her
into the crook of his left arm. His yell--and the throwing of his
wide-brimmed hat into the faces of the charging beasts--did not turn
them, but the cowpuncher never for an instant lost his presence of mind.

With Dorothy he leaped to the far side of the buckboard, after having
flung his hat. One heave of his shoulder sent the lightly built wagon
over upon its side. Against this frail barrier the maddened horses
came--but not so recklessly as they had charged the fence.

They were spreading out, too, and thus thinned, the mob was not likely
to do much damage. Only one horse came over the overturned buckboard.
He smashed several spokes of two wheels, and knocked the back seat awry.

The peril to the girl was over in half a minute, but the trouble for
the ranch hands lasted all night and the next day. They were until the
next evening collecting all the ponies again.

Lance Petterby helped them, for he considered that his motherÅfs pet hen
was one cause of the stampede. ÅgThough, if thet thar miserÅfble little
hounÅf dawg had kepÅf his nose out oÅf thet thar basket, thar wouldnÅft
have been no combobberation,Åh drawled Lance. ÅgThatÅfs as sure as kin be.Åh

They made much of Lance at the ranch-house the evening of the stampede,
for the adventure lost nothing in DorothyÅfs telling. Tavia undertook to
Ågplay tricks with her eyes,Åh as Dorothy accused, and was taken firmly
to task for it by her chum.

ÅgNow, Tavia, you are not going to act like a grown-up society girl with
Lance Petterby. I wonÅft have it,Åh Dorothy said. ÅgHeÅfs a fine fellow,
and you shanÅft try to make him look silly. He helped us, that time we
were left behind, to follow Aunt Winnie and the boys, and now heÅfs
actually saved my life.Åh

ÅgIt wouldnÅft be _my_ luck, of course, to be snatched from beneath the
hoofs of a whole pack of wild horses,Åh pouted Tavia.

ÅgIf you think it was fun, Miss----Åh

ÅgWell! it was dreadfully romantic,Åh declared Tavia, using her well-worn
expression. ÅgYou donÅft half appreciate your adventure.Åh

ÅgAdventure! And have your heart almost jump out of your mouth?Åh

ÅgBut thatÅfs only for the moment,Åh sighed Tavia. ÅgYouÅfre all right now.Åh

ÅgI thank Heaven I escaped death,Åh Dorothy said, reverently. ÅgAnd you
let Lance alone.Åh

But Lance Petterby had already had his attention strongly drawn to
Tavia Travers, and even had she so wished, she could not have easily
avoided him while he remained at the ranch.

Lance stayed for only two nights. Then he had to return to duty, but
his mother remained. Ophelia was not easily caught after her last
escapade. She had joined Mrs. LedgerÅfs half-wild flock of fowl, and
thus far nobody had been able to catch the little hen from RandÅfs
Falls, Massachusetts.

When Hank and his wife had a chicken for dinner, Mrs. Ledger took the
shotgun and got near enough to the flock to blow the head off of the
chicken she selected.

So, as Mrs. Petterby could not think of being parted from Ophelia for
any length of time, she agreed to remain at the Hardin Ranch. The
lively old lady was some company for Aunt Winnie, so Dorothy and Tavia
decided to roam a little after Lance went away.

There was no hope of the girls getting Ned and Nat for companions these
days. They were both in the saddle from morning till night. They had
helped run down the wild ponies that had stampeded.

Hank declared the boys were wearing out all the cow ponies, they rode
so hard. But there were a couple of more or less quiet mounts for the
girlsÅf use, and Flores was always about to help Dorothy and Tavia catch
and saddle them. Flores could handle horses like any man, could throw
the lariat, and otherwise displayed achievements natural to a girl in
the West, but strange to those from the East.

ÅgThere!Åh complained Tavia, as she and her chum rode away from the
corral. ÅgYou never finished telling me about that girl and the handsome
stage driver, Doro. ArenÅft they planning to run away and get married?Åh

ÅgI donÅft think so,Åh said Dorothy, with a little smile.

ÅgBut you donÅft know for sure?Åh said the eager Tavia.

ÅgIÅfm pretty sure,Åh admitted her chum gravely. ÅgNot unless each is going
to elope with another party.Åh

ÅgWhy, have they quarreled?Åh

ÅgI donÅft think so.Åh

ÅgDoro Doodlebugs! You tell me at once. YouÅfre every bit as mysterious
as a bakerÅfs mincepie.Åh

ÅgBut what do you want me to tell you?Åh asked Dorothy.

ÅgArenÅft Flores and Jos? sweethearts?Åh

ÅgCertainly not!Åh

ÅgWhy not?Åh

ÅgBecause they happen to be brother and sister!Åh cried Dorothy, with a
burst of laughter. For once one of TaviaÅfs romances was punctured!

The girls had started for the hills, but they followed a trail which
led them farther north than the path they had followed under Hank
LedgerÅfs guidance.

ÅgPerhaps we shall find the source of Lost River,Åh Dorothy said.

They had taken nobody into their confidence upon setting out, nor did
anybody at the ranch-house see them go save Flores Morale. In ten
minutes after the girls started they were completely out of sight of
the home buildings, the country was so rolling.

The ponies were good travelers. Long before noon Dorothy and Tavia were
deep in the wooded hills.

ÅgIÅfd love to go to the top of that mountain, Tavia,Åh said Dorothy,
pointing to a green hill that rose right before them.

ÅgLetÅfs!Åh cried Tavia. ÅgFrom that height we ought to be able to see
far--miles and miles!Åh

ÅgDo you suppose we can get there and back by suppertime?Åh

ÅgWhy not?Åh returned the cheerfully reckless Tavia. ÅgHurrah for the
mountain-top!

  ÅgÅeHark! I hear a voice
     ÅfWay up in the mountain-top, tip-top,
   Resounding down below--
     Re-sound-ing down be-low!Åf

and I almost choked getting the last low note,Åh croaked Tavia, coughing
spasmodically.

They began mounting a shoulder of the hill almost at once. An hour
later they were on the level of the plateau where the beautiful Lost
River rolled. The sound of its terrific fall was only a murmur in the
girlÅfs ears, for they were some distance above the spot to which they
had explored on that other day.

The reef of rock which was to be blown out to let the waters of the
stream into the forge was upon the other side of the river. Dorothy and
Tavia pursued the eastern bank, and in a northerly direction.

This led them around to the far side of the mountain, to the top of
which they had determined to ascend. Their sturdy little ponies carried
them on at a good pace, for the way was easy.

They finally reached a sharp, short rise, over which the river tumbled
in a beautiful cascade. Above these rapids the stream was spread out in
sort of a lake, bordered by rocky shores. The character of the country
suddenly became more rugged. A rude prospect opened beside them as the
girls turned their poniesÅf heads up the steeper hillside.

On their left the ground fell away into another gulch, quite as deep
and rugged as that gorge on the other side of the river, in which Tavia
had had her awful experience with the rattlesnake.

Suddenly Dorothy pulled in her pony and pointed down the steep incline.

ÅgWhat is that, Tavia?Åh she asked, startled.

ÅgWhat--for goodnessÅf sake, donÅft say you see one of NatÅfs bears,
Dorothy Dale!Åh

ÅgHush! not so loud.Åh

Åg_Is_ it a bear?Åh

ÅgItÅfs a man. I can see him plainly now. HeÅfs coming this way--up the
gorge.Åh

ÅgWell, thatÅfs a mercy! For if there should be a bear, maybe the man has
a gun.Åh

ÅgCrowd in here beside me, Tavia,Åh commanded Dorothy. ÅgI donÅft want him
to see you.Åh

ÅgWhy not?Åh asked Tavia, in surprise. ÅgDo you think a sight of me would
scare him?Åh

A clump of low bushes hid the ponies, and probably the girls themselves
could not have been observed from the bottom of the gulch. They peered
through a fringe of greenery into the hollow and observed the stranger
advancing up the rock-strewn bottom.

ÅgWhat under the sun, Doro, is he doing?Åh gasped Tavia, after a moment.

ÅgThatÅfs what I want to know,Åh returned her chum, seriously.

The man turned then and shouted down the gorge. A faint echo of his
voice reached the girls, but what he said they could not distinguish.

ÅgHeÅfs dragging something. Is it a rope?Åh murmured Dorothy.

ÅgMaybe they are measuring the gorge----Åh

ÅgThat is about what they are doing, Tavia Travers!Åh exclaimed Dorothy.
ÅgIt is a surveyorÅfs chain. There is the man with the trident.Åh

A second stranger had appeared. He set up his instrument quickly and
the chain-bearer followed his chiefÅfs gestures in placing a stake.

ÅgDo letÅfs go on, Dorothy!Åh Tavia exclaimed, with immediate loss of
interest in this seemingly prosaic matter. ÅgWeÅfll never get to the top.Åh

ÅgBut what are those men doing here?Åh

ÅgCanÅft you see? Surveying, of course.Åh

ÅgWhat for?Åh

ÅgOh, for a railroad, perhaps. For something or other. What does it
matter?Åh

ÅgThis is within the boundaries of the Hardin Ranch,Åh Dorothy said,
reflectively. ÅgI donÅft understand surveyors being here. I am sure Aunt
Winnie knows nothing about it.Åh

ÅgTell her when we get back. Come on, Doro,Åh said the impatient Tavia.

They urged the ponies on again and Tavia put the surveyors out of her
mind--quite. Not so Dorothy Dale. She could not solve the puzzle of
their presence on the Hardin estate, and she was troubled.

It was almost two oÅfclock when the girls reached a little lawn hidden
on the mountainside. It was quite surrounded by the forest, both above
and below, and they had had hard work pushing through the brush to it.
There seemed to be no practicable path for the ponies, leading upward.

ÅgLetÅfs leave them and go on afoot,Åh cried the eager Tavia. ÅgWe _must_
reach the top.Åh

ÅgSuppose the ponies run away?Åh

ÅgThey wonÅft. CanÅft we hobble them?Åh

ÅgMercy! I wouldnÅft go so near their heels for a fortune.Åh

ÅgTie them to trees, then,Åh said the resourceful--and obstinate--Tavia.

It was hard work, for although the top of the mountain was quite
covered with trees and brush, the ground was rocky.

Panting, but triumphant, the two girls reached the summit. The opening
in the forest here was very tiny--scarcely larger than a good-sized
dining-room table. The trees hedged them in and at once Tavia voiced
her disappointment.

ÅgItÅfs a shame!Åh she exclaimed. ÅgWhy, Doro, we canÅft even see the
ranch-house from here.Åh

ÅgIsnÅft that too bad?Åh agreed her chum. ÅgNever mind. We got here.Åh

ÅgI wanted to see all over the range.Åh

ÅgWe can see up into the mountains--how near the peaks seem now,Åh said
Dorothy. ÅgAnd, oh, Tavia! the sun is setting.Åh

ÅgWell! goodness! youÅfd give one a conniption----Åh

ÅgBut we must hurry right down the hill. Suppose we should be caught up
here all night?Åh

ÅgUp in the Åemountain-top, tip-top!Åf Not so much fun,Åh admitted her
chum. ÅgBut it must be early yet. You see, the sun goes down behind
those peaks so soon. There will be a long twilight.Åh

ÅgI donÅft want to be in these hills in the twilight,Åh said Dorothy. ÅgWe
must go back.Åh




CHAPTER XX

TWO EYES IN THE DARK


Now, although there had been no path up the mountain from the dell
where the girls had tied their ponies, both Dorothy and Tavia were
sure they could retrace their steps easily enough. And as the sun was
already nearing the tops of the higher peaks to the westward, neither
of the girls cared to linger longer on the height.

ÅgItÅfs all a fizzle,Åh grumbled Tavia. ÅgThatÅfs what I call it. Why! I
thought we would be able to look right down into the dooryard at the
ranch.Åh

ÅgIt did look so from below. And if we could climb the trees here, I
expect we would be able to see much of the range between the mountain
and the ranch-house,Åh agreed Dorothy.

ÅgWell! let us spend no time in vain repinings,Åh quoth Tavia, briskly.
ÅgWeÅfll tumble down and get into the saddle again. Guess weÅfre poor
mountain climbers, Doro.Åh

ÅgOh, I think we have done very well.Åh

ÅgNot a bit of it. Regular mountain climbers would have known from the
start that nothing could be seen from the top of _this_ mountain.Åh

ÅgEvery one to his trade,Åh laughed Dorothy.

ÅgAnd mountain climbing is a trade like everything else. Of course,Åh
added Tavia, whimsically, Ågto learn any trade, you have to begin at the
bottom and work up.Åh

ÅgOh, I donÅft know. How about parachute jumping?Åh chuckled Dorothy.

ÅgDear me! how smart you are,Åh said Tavia. ÅgThat reminds me of one my
brother Johnny got off--because it is so different! It was when he was
going to the little old school in Dalton.Åh

ÅgWhat fun _we_ had there,Åh sighed Dorothy.

ÅgYea, verily! Ages and ages ago--when we were young,Åh sniffed Tavia.
ÅgAnyhow, the teacher asked Johnny to tell what an anecdote was. ÅeA
short, funny tale,Åf says Johnny.

ÅgÅeTrue,Åf says the teacher. ÅeGo to the blackboard and write a sentence
containing the word.Åf

ÅgSo Johnny did so,Åh chuckled Tavia. ÅgHe wrote: ÅeA rabbit has four legs
and one anecdote.ÅfÅh

ÅgNow, Tavia!Åh cried Dorothy, panting and laughing, too. ÅgYou know that
is a made-up story. And I bet you stole it from somewhere.Åh

ÅgPshaw!Åh returned Tavia. ÅgWhere do you suppose all the funny people
since Noah got their jokes?Åh

ÅgOut of a joke-book published just before the Flood,Åh giggled Dorothy.
ÅgAnd you certainly must have a copy that you read on the sly.Åh

Just then the two girls, who had been all this time descending the
hill, burst through a screen of bushes into an opening.

ÅgHere we are!Åh cried Dorothy, with satisfaction.

ÅgHi! is this the place?Åh queried Tavia. ÅgOf course it is!Åh she added,
answering her own question. ÅgThereÅfs that scarred tree,Åh pointing to a
lightning-riven pine across the glade.

ÅgOh, that is so,Åh admitted Dorothy. Then she suddenly screamed: ÅgTavia
Travers! where are the ponies?Åh

ÅgDorothy!Åh shrieked Tavia, in return. ÅgTheyÅfve gone.Åh

ÅgGoodness!Åh said Dorothy Dale. ÅgHave they run away--or been stolen?Åh

ÅgItÅfs plain to be seen they are not to be seen,Åh said Tavia.
ÅgItÅfs--itÅfs dreadfully unfortunate, Doro.Åh

ÅgAnd we canÅft walk home!Åh wailed Dorothy.

ÅgAll right, Miss. WeÅfll fly.Åh

ÅgWeÅfll find the ponies,Åh declared the practical Dorothy, recovering to
a degree from her panic. ÅgCome on.Åh

But the two girls from the East were not familiar with the wilds. As
for trailing horses through the woods, they did not know one single
thing about that business. They could not even find the spot where the
ponies had been tied, side by side.

ÅgMy goodness me, Doro,Åh asked Tavia, at length, Ågwhatever shall we do?
The ponies are lost. What will your Aunt Winnie say to that?Åh

ÅgI guess she wonÅft trouble much about the loss of the ponies--and IÅfm
not going to,Åh declared Dorothy. ÅgBut _we_ donÅft want to get lost.Åh

ÅgWhy! we canÅft. We know our way back--perfectly.Åh

ÅgDo we?Åh

ÅgRight down the hill to the brink of that gorge where we saw the
surveyors; then south to that water-fall. From that point there is a
regular trail--you know there is, Doro!Åh

ÅgYe--es,Åh admitted Dorothy, doubtfully. ÅgIt _sounds_ simple enough.Åh

ÅgItÅfs perfectly all right,Åh declared Tavia, again. ÅgCome on.Åh

ÅgWell, dear, IÅfll let you lead,Åh said Dorothy, quietly.

While they had searched about the dell, and discussed the situation,
time had been flying. Already the red globe of the sun was disappearing
behind a western peak.

All the sky there was shrouded in rolling clouds. The sun plunging
into these wreaths of mist turned them all to gold and crimson. Such a
gorgeous sunset would have transfixed the girls with delight at another
time.

But, as Tavia said, this was no moment to Ågworship at the shrine of
beauty.Åh ÅgOh, Doro! IÅfm thinking of Mrs. LedgerÅfs hot biscuit, and ham,
and potato chips. Goodness! how hungry I am. Never mind the sunset.Åh

ÅgI am not minding it,Åh Dorothy said, quietly. ÅgBut you suggested
leading the way down this Åebad eminenceÅf to which we were reckless
enough to climb. Go on.Åh

Tavia started, and stared about the opening in the trees. It would seem
to be a simple matter to leave this place, descend through the woods to
the plateau, and so down the riverside.

But there was not a landmark to guide them. They had not thought to
take note of the trees and rocks, in relation to each other, while they
made the ascent. Their knowledge of the points of the compass were
somewhat vague, despite the view they had of the setting sun.

ÅgOh, Doro!Åh wailed Tavia, suddenly. ÅgIÅfm afraid! IÅfm afraid of these
woods. IÅfm afraid weÅfll get down into that deep gorge where those men
were. Oh, dear! Oh, dear! letÅfs not move from this spot.Åh

Tavia was almost hysterical. That was the way it was with her--always.
If she was startled she lost her self-possession entirely.

But with Dorothy it was different. A situation like this brought
her better sense to the surface. She was determined to keep
cool--especially when her chum showed the white feather.

ÅgNow, Tavia! do be sensible,Åh begged Dorothy Dale. ÅgWeÅfve got to face
the thing squarely. Of course, without the horses we could not get home
to-night. And to wander around in the dark, seeking a way that is none
too clear by daylight, would be a perfectly ridiculous thing to do,
under any circumstances.Åh

ÅgWell, Doro! do you mean to stay here?Åh

ÅgWhy not?Åh

ÅgThe bears--wolves--cat-oÅf-mountains----Åh

ÅgAre probably creations of NatÅfs vivid imagination,Åh interposed
Dorothy, with decision.

ÅgWell, there _was_ a snake,Åh murmured Tavia.

ÅgWeÅfll build a fire. That will keep away snakes, at least,Åh Dorothy
said, cheerfully.

ÅgOh, Doro!Åh shrieked Tavia. ÅgYou donÅft mean to stay in this awful place
all night?Åh

ÅgDo you know a better? It is open. There is shelter beside that big
boulder. ThereÅfs a little rill that must be sweet water---- By the way!
I didnÅft notice that stream when we came here first. Did you, Tavia?Åh

ÅgOh, I donÅft know!Åh wailed Tavia.

ÅgDo you suppose we _have_ found the place where we left the ponies
tied?Åh asked Dorothy, anxiously.

ÅgOf course. And the nasty things have run away. IÅfll never trust one of
those broncs again.Åh

ÅgDonÅft be foolish, dear. It must have been our own fault. We did not
tie them properly.Åh

ÅgI know I tied _mine_ tight enough,Åh grumbled Tavia. ÅgAnd say! how you
going to build a fire?Åh

ÅgJust the same as anybody else would build one,Åh Dorothy declared.

ÅgBut you canÅft.Åh

ÅgWhy not?Åh asked Dorothy, in surprise.

ÅgBy rubbing two sticks together?Åh scoffed Tavia.

ÅgBy rubbing one stick upon a stone,Åh chuckled Dorothy. ÅgI have matches.Åh

ÅgIÅfm glad you find it such a joke, Dorothy Dale.Åh

ÅgYou talk as though you had never been out in the open all night
before.Åh

ÅgBut it wasnÅft like this, you know very well. This isnÅft like our woods
at home. This is the West----Åh

ÅgThe wild and woolly West, eh?Åh laughed Dorothy. ÅgCome! donÅft be a
goose, dear. LetÅfs gather plenty of fuel before it grows too dark.Åh

They did this, breaking off the dead branches of the trees which
skirted the glade and gathering sticks already fallen on the ground.
But Tavia cast fearful glances into the now darkening forest and would
not venture beneath the trees at all.

ÅgWe donÅft know whatÅfs in there,Åh she said.

ÅgWell! we havenÅft got to know,Åh her chum said, cheerfully. ÅgWeÅfll keep
out of the woods to-night.Åh

ÅgMaybe something will come out of them after us.Åh

ÅgNot if we keep a fire burning. And in the morning, as soon as itÅfs
light, weÅfll start for home. We can walk it by noon.Åh

ÅgIf we are alive,Åh sighed Tavia.

Dorothy refused to be depressed by her friendÅfs melancholy. She
proposed making a couch of leaves and branches, and they did this. When
it really grew dark and the stars came out, she produced matches and
lit the fire.

She did not make a big blaze. Really, there was no need of it at all,
for the evening was warm enough and a spark of light on this hillside
would never be seen by any party looking for them.

By this time, of course, word had gone over the ranch that the girls
were lost. Aunt Winnie would be worried. Ned and Nat would be out after
them with all the men who could be spared.

ÅgAnd in all probability,Åh Dorothy said, gravely, Ågnobody--not even
Flores--noticed in which direction we headed on leaving the corral.Åh

ÅgWell! We should worry about _their_ worries. ItÅfs our worries that
worry me.Åh

Dorothy laughed. ÅgYou speak quite as intelligibly,Åh she said, Ågas the
old catch question and answer: ÅeWhat sort of a noise annoys an oyster?
Why, a noisy noise annoys an oyster!ÅfÅh

ÅgMy goodness! I wouldnÅft mind being an oyster right now.Åh

ÅgMercy! What for?Åh

ÅgÅfCause I could close my shell tight and nothing could get at me. Oh,
Doro! what is that?Åh

A belated bird flew overhead and its cry had startled Tavia. Dorothy
laughed at her again.

ÅgLetÅfs be brave, Tavia.Åh

ÅgWhat for? ThereÅfs nobody to see us. ItÅfs other folks looking on that
makes people brave. I know you so well, Doro, that I donÅft care if you
_do_ know IÅfm afraid.Åh

The sky arched them like a dome of dark blue velvet on which silver
spangles had been sewn. The woods were filled with deep shadows.

A breathless silence seemed to have fallen over the hillside. The
girls, huddled together on their rude couch, could distinguish the
faint tinkle of the little rill at which they had quenched their
thirst.

ÅgBut our appetites!Åh groaned Tavia. ÅgThereÅfs nothing to quench them.
Oh, Doro! you are so nice and plump. IÅfd like to bite you.Åh

ÅgYou are the most savage animal in all this forest, I do believe,
Tavia,Åh laughed Dorothy.

DorothyÅfs cheerfulness had its limits. As they huddled there in the
shelter of the overhanging boulder, the night seemed to drop down upon
them, and Tavia hid her eyes against DorothyÅfs shoulder. With their
arms about each other they remained speechless for a while, and then
both girls must have dozed.

Suddenly Tavia tightened her grip upon her chum and uttered a terrified
gasp. It awoke Dorothy--her eyes opened wide. Tavia was pointing
straight out into the darkness before them, and she was trembling
hysterically.

The fire had died down to a little bed of embers, but one stick laid
across the coals suddenly snapped in two and the ends burst into flame.

The flickering light glittered upon two bright spots which were
seemingly across the glade, just at the edge of the forest.

Without a word passing between them the terrified girls knew what those
sparkling objects were. The firelight was reflected in the eyes of some
beast which was staring fixedly at them!




CHAPTER XXI

DOROTHYÅfS COURAGE


Not a sound did the prowling animal make, but its very silence seemed
to add to the terrifying effect it had upon Dorothy Dale and her chum.

As the feeble flames rose and fell, so the reflected glare of the eyes
increased and decreased. The pitiless, unwinking orbs displayed the
savage intent of the beast.

For half a minute Dorothy was helpless, as was her chum. She had not
partaken of TaviaÅfs panic before; she had really scouted the idea that
savage animals roamed these woods. But she must believe now!

However, to faint--to give up hope of escape--to helplessly await the
closer approach of the beast whose eyes they saw, did not once enter
Dorothy DaleÅfs mind.

She threw off TaviaÅfs clutching hands quickly, reached for some fuel,
and threw it on the flickering campfire. Almost at once the flames
burst out and mounted higher. Their glare revealed the immediate
surroundings of the rude encampment, but nothing of the strange
marauder but the glittering eyes was visible to the girls.

Dorothy was quite sure that while the fire burned brightly no wild
animal would throw itself upon them. Wolves, she knew, were cowardly
alone; only in the pack were they courageous enough to attack man. As
for its being a bear--those eyes never belonged to Bruin. He would not
remain still so long.

The unwinking nature of their observation forced Dorothy to determine
that the eyes belonged to a member of the cat tribe. A panther? No more
terrible beast, she was sure, roamed the Colorado wilderness.

Somewhere, when she was much younger, Dorothy had seen a picture in
a book of African adventure, in which a huge lion was shown leaping
over a line of fires around a hunterÅfs camp to get at the cattle.
Ordinarily, she was sure, the cat tribe was much afraid of the flames,
but suppose this individual that was watching her and Tavia was
particularly hungry?

Would the miserable little blaze prevent the beast from leaping upon
them? The same thought seemed to unlock the chains of TaviaÅfs speech,
for she whispered:

ÅgThrow on more wood, Dorothy. Make a big blaze.Åh

ÅgBut we havenÅft so _much_ wood,Åh objected Dorothy.

ÅgOh, do! Perhaps a big fire will drive it off.Åh

Dorothy recklessly heaped on more fuel. The flames leaped and crackled.
But their light did not show the outlines of the enemy. It seemed to be
crouching in the deep shadow at the edge of the forest. Nothing showed
of the creature but those terrible eyes.

ÅgIf we only had a gun,Åh whispered Dorothy, with longing.

ÅgWeÅfd be afraid to shoot at it,Åh gasped Tavia.

ÅgNot I! IÅfd try to make a bullseye.Åh

ÅgCanÅft we try to scare it off in some way?Åh

ÅgLetÅfs scream--both together!Åh cried Dorothy Dale. ÅgNow!Åh

If fear-inspired shrieks ever issued from feminine throats, the
abandoned yell of Tavia was a triumphant specimen. Nor was Dorothy far
behind in the piercing quality of her cry.

It is doubtful if any mountain lion in all the wild places of the West
could have equalled the quality of the girlsÅf yells. And----

ÅgThe nasty beast never so much as winked an eye!Åh Tavia gasped,
horrified.

Dorothy was fully as much amazed as her chum. There was something
uncanny about the twinkling, glistening spots. She had never heard of
any creature with such unwinking eyes--save a serpent. And surely
these eyes did not belong to any reptile.

She threw more fuel on the fire. Again the flames leaped up. The heap
of wood they had gathered was fast being diminished. Dorothy looked at
her watch. Only half-past ten! The beast had been watching them--she
was sure--for an hour.

Suppose it remained all night? They had not fuel enough to last until
midnight at the reckless rate they were using it.

When it was all gone, and the fire died down--what then? The thought
was really terrifying. If the blaze was what kept the beast at bay,
once the fire was dead, the girls would be at the animalÅfs mercy.

Dorothy Dale did not lose her head and become hysterical, like Tavia.
She knew something must be done. Tavia was absolutely helpless. After
they had so uselessly screamed, she just sat hiding her eyes, and
trembling.

Dorothy knew that if anything was to be done to scare away the beast,
it devolved upon her to do it. Now! should she try to gather more fuel,
or should she rise up and attack the watchful brute?

The latter was the more desperate expediency, yet the wiser. A quick
dash might drive the animal away.

Without a word to Tavia of her intention, Dorothy gathered her feet
under her, reached for a blazing branch on the fire, and suddenly
sprang erect.

With a scream she leaped past the fire and, holding the flaming branch
straight out before her, ran across the glade toward the staring eyes!

Had she stopped to contemplate the desperate venture, she never would
have started. Almost as she determined on making the attack, she had
sprung into action.

She was half way to the edge of the woods ere she realized that her
charge did not seem to startle the enemy at all. _The eyes did not even
blink._

If ever in her life, Dorothy Dale showed desperate courage at this
moment. She kept straight on--whirling the burning branch to make the
sparks fly--and dashed up to the bulky object which had so terrified
her and her chum.

It was a good sized boulder imbedded in the earth at the edge of the
forest. Its face was split and scarred; two bits of mica in its front
had caught and reflected the firelight, and so looked like a pair of
staring eyes. _This_ was the dreadful beast of prey that had held them
in durance for an hour and a half!

The reaction of her discovery deprived Dorothy DaleÅfs limbs of their
strength. She fell to the ground, and the flaming branch sputtered
before her and flickered out. Tavia screamed again, but Dorothy was
laughing weakly--almost hysterically.

ÅgOh, Tavia Travers! What a perfect pair of dunces we are,Åh gasped
Dorothy. ÅgItÅfs nothing--nothing, I tell you! Just some bright specks in
a rock. If the boys ever hear of this they will tease us to death about
it.Åh

ÅgLet them,Åh cried Tavia, with recovered bravado. ÅgI shall tell. YouÅfre
just the very bravest girl I ever saw, Dorothy Dale! You believed that
was an awful, ravenous beast when you started for it with the torch. I
consider that you have saved me from being devoured by the most savage
creature that ever happened!Åh

ÅgWhat shall we name it?Åh giggled Dorothy, climbing slowly to her feet
and coming back with Tavia to the fire.

ÅgOh, a Bhronosaurus--or a Dynosaura--or--or something. Maybe a
Pteryodactyl. DidnÅft they all live in the Stone Age?Åh

ÅgAnd you just from the scholastic halls of old Glenwood!Åh cried
Dorothy. ÅgI am astounded, Tavia Travers.Åh

ÅgYou neednÅft be,Åh said her chum, coolly. ÅgThere are a whole lot of
things I had to learn that I hope I have already forgotten. I guess
the history of a million years, or so, ago, is fading fast from my
overburdened mind. And IÅfll certainly feel better when it is _all_
wiped out.Åh

The incident served to bring Tavia to a better condition of mind. She
shook off her foolish fears, and even assisted Dorothy in gathering a
larger supply of firewood.

ÅgFor although those eyes were those of a bogey,Åh said Dorothy, wisely,
Ågthere may be creatures who would trouble us before morning if we had
no fire.Åh

ÅgWhoÅfs going to keep awake to feed the fire?Åh yawned Tavia.

ÅgIÅfll keep first watch,Åh agreed Dorothy.

ÅgAll right. Ow--yow! I canÅft keep my eyes open and my mouth shut. If
a whole herd of bears ringed us, I should just have to sleep! Call me
when itÅfs time for my watch, Doro. Ow-_yow_!Åh

And the next moment her breathing showed that she slumbered.

Dorothy fell asleep herself after a time, trusting to the chill of the
night air to awaken her when the fire died down.

But what really woke her up was a shrill cry that echoed through the
forest in a most weird way, and startled both girls into an upright
position before their eyes were even open.

Again the strange cry rang out. Tavia broke off in a mighty yawn and
seized DorothyÅfs hand.

ÅgMore trouble!Åh she gasped.




CHAPTER XXII

DOROTHY HEARS SOMETHING IMPORTANT


ÅgAnd just to think!Åh Tavia groaned, as the two girls rode slowly down
the riverside an hour after sunrise. ÅgWe hadnÅft any business having an
adventure at all.Åh

ÅgI--donÅft--know,Åh responded Dorothy, slowly.

ÅgWell, _I_ do! The boys will tease us to death about it. There the
ponies were, tied where we left them, just in another opening in the
woods, not a hundred yards away from where we spent the night. But when
I first heard them whinnying for water at daybreak, I was scared into
fits--werenÅft you, Doro?Åh

Dorothy admitted her fright. TaviaÅfs whole statement was not far from
correct. The entire adventure had been preventable. Dorothy considered
herself seriously to blame.

If she and her chum had marked their path up the steep hillside beyond
the spot where the ponies had been abandoned, they would have had no
difficulty in finding their mounts again.

So, had they recovered the ponies they could easily have returned to
the ranch-house by dark. Aunt Winnie, Dorothy knew, must have been
dreadfully worried over their disappearance.

Indeed, the whole country round about had been roused, as the girls
quickly learned. Half a dozen search parties were out after them. While
they still followed the course of Lost River they heard whooping, and
rifle shots, ahead.

ÅgCome on!Åh cried Tavia, Ågthey are searching for us.Åh

Both girls hurried their ponies, rounded a turn in the path, and were
hailed with delight by Ned, Nat and half a dozen cowpunchers, who had
started into the hills for a second search for the lost girls.

They had ridden over the ranges and lower country all night, searching
for the runaways, and after breakfasting at the bunkhouse, had started
forth again.

Dorothy and Tavia were warmly welcomed--and scolded just as warmly by
Ned and Nat, too! When Mrs. White had kissed and hugged them, she, too,
turned upon them and threatened to take away their ponies if they ever
rode more than two miles from the ranch-house again without a guide.

Dorothy knew she had no right to complain about this restriction. It
had been a reckless thing to do--that trip to the mountain-top. And
she could not get over the fact that her own oversight had caused her
and Tavia to remain out in the open all night.

There had been no serious results, however, and in a day or two the
escapade was forgotten. The girls had agreed not to tell of their awful
fright caused by the bits of mica shining in the rock. If Ned and Nat
had gotten hold of _that_ tale the girls never would have heard the
last of it.

It was about this time that Dorothy heard from Major Dale regarding
the Lincoln letter that John Dempsey had found among Colonel HardinÅfs
discarded papers. Dorothy had told her father the whole story--of
Philo MarshÅfs desire to purchase the letter, and all. She had likewise
expressed herself as being more than ever antagonistic to the Dugonne
lawyer.

ÅgDonÅft fret your pretty head, Little Captain, about matters that do not
concern you,Åh Major Dale wrote. ÅgI have confidence in WinifredÅfs good
sense, and she will be a match for a man like Marsh. As for the old
soldier and his famous letter--tell him not to put any great trust in
the validity of the letter, and if he can sell it for a good round sum,
to do so.Åh

Major Dale went on to tell his daughter of a test by which she could
assure herself and Dempsey as to the actual value of the letter. This
amazed Dorothy, and she ran off to tell the old soldier and to follow
her fatherÅfs suggestion.

The letter to the Massachusetts widow proved to be valid. It really was
a very interesting document. After Dorothy and John Dempsey had talked
it over, the old man changed his mind about selling it.

ÅgIf that snake in the grass raises his offer to me much higher, IÅfll
jest natcherly be obleeged to sell,Åh he said, grimly. ÅgLet it be on his
own head.Åh

Philo Marsh was at the ranch-house almost every day. Aunt Winnie
wondered why some of the other interested parties had not called to get
her views upon the water-rights question; but not a person from the
farming land to the south or from Desert City, came to the Hardin ranch.

ÅgIt must be,Åh she told the boys and Dorothy, Ågthat these Desert people
have left the whole matter--as he says--in Mr. MarshÅfs hands. I would
have felt better about it had I talked with others--to make sure that
this agreement Philo Marsh offers suits all hands. I believe I shall
sign the preliminary papers the next time Mr. Marsh calls.Åh

ÅgI guess itÅfs all right, mother,Åh said big Ned, carelessly. ÅgAnd the
fellow _is_ getting to be a nuisance hanging about here.Åh

Dorothy was tempted to tell her aunt of the conversation she had
overheard between Marsh and the foreman, Hank Ledger, despite the fact
that the conference seemed to have led to nothing. The foreman was a
good sort, and Dorothy liked Mrs. Ledger, so the girl did not wish to
make her aunt suspicious of Hank.

She understood that this preliminary agreement between her aunt and
those who desired water from Lost River, was not a binding document.
Aunt Winnie said the lawyers in Dugonne would look after the estateÅfs
interest before the matter was concluded, and make everything legal and
shipshape.

Naturally, even Dorothy--with all her suspicion of Philo Marsh--did not
pay much attention to the business of the water-rights, only when the
subject was brought up in family conclave. The young folk were having
too good a time to think of much but their own pleasure--the boys in
their way, and the girls in theirs.

Old Mrs. Petterby had caught Ophelia and now was anxious to go back
to the Nicholson place, where she was to meet Lance again. She was to
drive over in a buckboard, one of the Mexican hands being employed as
driver, and of course there were two empty seats.

ÅgLetÅfs go with her--you and I, Doro,Åh proposed Tavia, eagerly.

Dorothy suspected that her chum was just roguish enough to want to
plague Lance Petterby, and she tried to veto the proposal.

ÅgAll right for you, then!Åh said Tavia, coolly. ÅgIf you wonÅft go with
me, IÅfll go anyway.Åh

That settled it. Dorothy did not want Tavia to go without her. So
they drove away in the buckboard with the old lady from RandÅfs Falls,
Massachusetts.

It was a jolly ride, for Mrs. Petterby was good fun and both the girls
were fond of her. When they arrived at the squatterÅfs double cabin,
sure enough, there was Lance and his pony, Gaby.

ÅgSartain shore am glad tuh see yuh!Åh was the cowboyÅfs welcome, smiling
broadly upon the girls. But it was plain to Dorothy that his bold eyes
lingered longer upon TaviaÅfs brilliant face.

Tavia was at her best--sprightly, talkative, laughing--behaving indeed
in a most bewildering fashion. A much more sophisticated fellow than
Lance Petterby might have had his head turned over Tavia Travers on
that particular day.

Dorothy knew very well that it was only TaviaÅfs fun, but the cowboy did
not know. Even old Mrs. Petterby said:

ÅgI declare forÅft! I never did see sech a gal for runninÅf on as you do.
CanÅft tell when ye air funninÅf anÅf when ye air in earnest.Åh

Lance had something to say to Dorothy in private.

ÅgYuh axed me about Philo Marsh last time I seen yuh, Miss Dale. Has yuh
aunt signed up for them water-rights yet?Åh

ÅgNo. But she is about to.Åh

ÅgTell her to wait a bit longer. I got a line on something queer.Åh

ÅgOh, Mr. Lance! What is it? About Philo Marsh?Åh

ÅgYes, MaÅfam. You say heÅfs workinÅf for the Desert City folks?Åh

ÅgWhy--yes. He must be.Åh

ÅgThen heÅfs got two strings to his bow. I got a straight tip that heÅfs
employed by the Consolidated Ackron Company.Åh

ÅgThe mining company?Åh

ÅgYes, MaÅfam.Åh

ÅgBut what is he doing for them?Åh

ÅgWhy, they tell me heÅfs been in their pay for a long time. Does their
dirty work, Miss Dale. MeaninÅf that he settles damage cases out oÅf
court. Man gits hurt in the shaft, or somehow. Before he kin git fixed
up by the doctor, Åfround comes Philo and offers to pay bills and give
the man a small sum. Otherwise man loses his job--you see? If the poor
fellerÅfs killed, Philo settles with the widder.Åh

ÅgI understand,Åh said Dorothy. ÅgBut that would not keep him from taking
cases for other people?Åh

ÅgNo, MaÅfam. But Philo wouldnÅft be likely to take a job that might queer
him with the mining company. And them folks want the water jest as bad
as they want it out in the desert.Åh

ÅgBut how could they get it?Åh cried Dorothy, in wonder. ÅgThat gorge by
which Lost River can be drained off, runs to the edge of the desert. It
doesnÅft slope north at all.Åh

ÅgThatÅfs shore anÅf sartain, Miss,Åh declared Lance. ÅgBut thet thar ainÅft
the only way Lost River kin be turned--donÅft think it!Åh

Suddenly the thought of the surveyors she and Tavia had seen, flashed
into DorothyÅfs mind.

Eagerly the girl told the cowpuncher of what she and Tavia had observed
behind the green mountain. He listened closely and nodded at the end.

ÅgShore as you air a foot high, them surveyors was runninÅf a line to
Lost River for the mining corporation. Once they git the water----
Well! good-_night_! TheyÅfve got plenty of money to fight you folks in
the courts. Possession, in this case, I reckon, would be nine pÅfints of
the law.

ÅgNow, tell your aÅfnt tuh go slow. DonÅft let her sign a paper that Philo
brings her. ThereÅfll be some quirk about it thatÅfll tie her hands. Or
else, he is seeking to delay matters until the mining folks can put in
dynamite and blow out a channel for the river.Åh




CHAPTER XXIII

ÅgWHERE IS AUNT WINNIE?Åh


Tavia declared DorothyÅfs insisting upon going back to the ranch so
early Ågspoiled all her fun.Åh

ÅgYou can miss that fun, Miss,Åh said her chum, somewhat sharply.
ÅgTeasing Mr. Petterby is a good deal like a cat playing with a mouse.
ItÅfs fun for the cat, but tragic for the mouse.Åh

ÅgTragedy! Fancy!Åh responded Tavia, tossing her head. ÅgAs though my
innocent little conversations with Lance were tragic in any way.Åh

ÅgHe thinks you are in earnest when you show interest in his affairs,Åh
declared Dorothy.

ÅgBut you know, dear, heÅfs such fun!Åh pouted Tavia. ÅgI canÅft help
plaguing him. He is so very innocent--a big man like him!--that heÅfs
fair game. You are a regular spoil-sport.Åh

ÅgIÅfve another reason for going home,Åh said Dorothy, seriously. ÅgJust
the same, you are not to be trusted, Tavia. I am ashamed of you.Åh

ÅgYou neednÅft be. I wouldnÅft harm poor little Lance Petterby for the
world!Åh giggled the black-eyed girl.

Dorothy was too worried over what the cowboy had told her about Philo
Marsh to keep on joking with her friend. The instant they reached the
ranch-house she ran to find Aunt Winnie.

ÅgOh, Auntie! you havenÅft signed those horrid papers, have you?Åh Dorothy
cried.

ÅgWhat do you mean, child?Åh asked Mrs. White.

ÅgFor that Marsh man.Åh

ÅgWhy, Dorothy! you are greatly excited. What _is_ the matter?Åh

ÅgThen you _have_ signed?Åh wailed Dorothy.

ÅgNo. I told him I would to-morrow if he brought out a commissioner of
deeds with him. I cannot go to town now.Åh

ÅgDonÅft do it!Åh begged her niece, excitedly. ÅgThereÅfs something queer
about it. Let me tell you,Åh and there poured forth then all her
suspicions and her reasons for holding them. She told her aunt about
the strange talk she had overheard between the foreman of the ranch and
Philo Marsh, as well as about the surveying party she and Tavia had
seen back in the hills. She likewise repeated what Lance Petterby had
told her that very day.

ÅgI cannot understand it,Åh Mrs. White said. ÅgI have read the agreement
Mr. Marsh offers very carefully. It is between your father and me, as
party of the first part (that is the legal phrase), and Mr. Marsh, Mr.
Kendrick, and Mr. Stephen Goode, who jointly agree to take the water of
Lost River under certain conditions. There is no corporation formed as
yet, I am told, and these men constitute a committee.Åh

ÅgA committee for whom?Åh asked Dorothy, briskly.

ÅgWhy--why, for the people who want the water.Åh

ÅgBut who _are_ they, Aunt Winnie? Philo Marsh says he is acting for the
Desert people; but you donÅft really _know_ if it is so.Åh

ÅgChild! it canÅft be possible that the man would boldly conspire to gain
my signature for a different purpose from that Colonel Hardin intended?Åh

ÅgThatÅfs exactly what I believe Marsh is aiming to do,Åh cried Dorothy.
ÅgDonÅft you sign.Åh

ÅgI wonÅft. A bad promise is better broken than kept. I shall write to
Mr. Jermyn. When I spoke to him in Dugonne he said he had had no reason
for looking into the matter, but he supposed that Mr. Marsh was acting
in good faith. Lawyers, I am afraid, are like doctors. The ethics of
the profession sometimes stand before their duty to a client.

ÅgBut Mr. Jermyn shall come out here and examine the papers and talk
with Mr. Marsh in my presence, before I sign,Åh added Mrs. White.
ÅgThank you, my dear, for being so helpful. Go tell Dempsey to find a
man to ride into Dugonne at once with a note.Åh

Dorothy ran to do as she was bid, while Mrs. White went to write the
letter. A man came to the ranch-house in a few minutes, a-straddle of
a vicious pony. He was a sullen, rough looking fellow, but Mrs. White
presumed he was to be trusted as a messenger.

However, had she known that the fellow carried her note to Philo Marsh
instead of to Mr. Jermyn--being in MarshÅfs pay--the lady from the East
would not have been so tranquil in her mind. Having been unsuccessful
in wheedling Hank Ledger into aiding him, Marsh had hired this Mexican
to play the spy at the Hardin ranch.

Tavia and the boys were not informed of the new mystery regarding the
water-rights affair. Dorothy had promised Aunt Winnie not to speak of
it at present.

ÅgAfter working as hard as we do all day,Åh quoth Ned at the supper table
that night, Åga fellow needs a little recreation in the evening. You
girls arenÅft at all entertaining. Why! you havenÅft had even a ÅesingÅf
since we came out here to the ranch.Åh

ÅgWhat will we do for music?Åh asked Dorothy. ÅgThere isnÅft even a banjo
in the house.Åh

ÅgThere are mandolins, or guitars, or something, down to the
bunkhouse,Åh Nat broke in. ÅgI heard somebody plunking one to-day. You
know, these Mexicans are great on music--of a kind.Åh

ÅgIÅfll ask Flores,Åh promised Dorothy, briskly. ÅgJust as soon as supper
is over.Åh

ÅgAnd weÅfll all sing,Åh announced Ned, gravely.

Tavia immediately relinquished her knife and fork. ÅgI object,Åh she
declared. ÅgPerhaps I should say that I rise to a point of order.Åh

ÅgWhat about, Miss?Åh demanded Ned.

ÅgAre _you_ going to attempt to sing?Åh asked Tavia, point blank.

ÅgWhat if I do?Åh

ÅgPrithee, donÅft, dear Neddie,Åh begged the teasing girl. ÅgWeÅfve heard
you make the attempt before. You escaped with your life on that
occasion, but remember it was in a comparatively ÅetameÅf country.

ÅgThis is the wild and woolly West. They hang people here for
horse-stealing--and perhaps for eating with their knives, I donÅft know!
At any rate, Lance Petterby tells me that many of the Åeold-timersÅf
shoot from the hip, and without much provocation. Your sweet young life
may be snuffed out, Neddie, if you try to sing, by some native with an
ear for music.Åh

ÅgHa, ha!Åh cried Nat. ÅgOld NedÅfs like the minister they tell about who
was called to a new pastorate. One of the members of the new church
asked a friend of the minister if he was a good man.

ÅgÅeHe is a very good man,Åf agreed the ministerÅfs friend.

ÅgÅeWell, what are his faults? He must have _some_ fault?Åf said the
curious one.

ÅgÅeSince you press me,Åf said the other, ÅeI know of but one grave fault
in your new minister.Åf

ÅgSo the man asked him what that fault was. ÅeHe doesnÅft know how to
sing,Åf declared the candid friend.

ÅgÅeWell, thatÅfs not a very serious fault,Åf said the anxious one, much
relieved.

ÅgÅeNo,Åf was the reply; Åebut, you see, he sings just the same as if he
_did_ know.ÅfÅh

ÅgThat settles it,Åh growled Ned, appearing to be much offended. ÅgIÅfll
not sing, no matter how much I am urged. I positively refuse.Åh

ÅgI can go on with my supper, then,Åh said Tavia, calmly, Ågand with a
mind relieved of anxiety.Åh

ÅgAnd while you are finishing,Åh laughed Dorothy, ÅgIÅfll go hunt up
Flores, and see if there is music to be had to soothe the savage
breasts of these amateur cowpunchers.Åh

She ran down to the shack where the foreman and his wife lived. The
twilight was falling, and Dorothy thought the country beautiful. Bare
as the ranges were, the vari-colored sky arching the rolling plain
lent a softness to the earthÅfs outline that pleased the eye.

By broad day she could see the boulders cropping out of the hillsides,
and the scars of ancient land-slips upon the faces of the higher
mountains, but now purple and saffron shadows mantled all these rude
outlines of the landscape, while the little valleys were pits of gray
mist and shadow.

Dorothy came, cheerfully singing, to the door of the foremanÅfs house.
ÅgWhere is Flores?Åh she asked Mrs. Ledger, who had hurried down from the
big house as soon as supper there was served to get the evening meal
for her husband and the hands.

ÅgDrat the gal!Åh replied Mrs. Ledger, with some exasperation. ÅgI wish I
knew. I left her here to get things started, and sheÅfs run off.Åh

ÅgRun away?Åh cried the startled Dorothy.

ÅgNot fur, I reckon. SheÅfs always buzzing some of the men. ÅfDruther play
than work, any time, that gal had.Åh

ÅgIÅfll find her,Åh promised the girl from the East, and went on toward
the horse sheds.

But she would have passed Flores in the dusk had she not heard excited
voices speaking Spanish. Dorothy could not understand Spanish, but she
recognized the tones of the Mexican girlÅfs voice.

ÅgFlores!Åh

Instantly Dorothy saw one of the herdsmen dive into the deeper shadow
beside the shed, while Flores came swiftly toward her. The Mexican girl
had been crying, Dorothy knew, although it was too dark to see her face
but dimly.

ÅgWhat is the matter, Flores?Åh

ÅgI--I no can tell you, Se?orita,Åh sobbed Flores.

ÅgYou wonÅft tell me?Åh

ÅgI--I dare not. I no explain. Hush!Åh whispered the girl. ÅgYou take care
at beeg house. Bad mans about.Åh

This was anything but lucid, but try as she might Dorothy could get
nothing more explicit from Flores. The latter seemed not only unable to
explain herself in English, but she was afraid to speak at all!

Flores hurried back to the Ledger domicile and lent Dorothy a mandolin
of her own. Tavia could play the mandolin, and the young folk at the
big house had a nice ÅgsingÅh that evening.

When Dorothy and her chum went to bed the former told Tavia about
FloresÅf strange speech and actions.

ÅgMore mystery, Rudolpho!Åh cried Tavia. ÅgWhat can she mean? ÅeBad mans,Åf
eh? Sounds awfully interesting. Almost _any_ male man with intelligence
would be a delightful change from these ignorant Mexican herdsmen.Åh

ÅgEven a villain like Philo Marsh?Åh

ÅgOh! he is a disappointment, despite his mustache,Åh admitted Tavia.
ÅgEven as a villain he proved second rate.Åh

ÅgPerhaps we havenÅft seen the last of his villainy,Åh said Dorothy,
darkly.

Tavia, her hearing momentarily impaired by a big yawn, did not catch
the drift of DorothyÅfs prophecy. The next day there was more than the
usual stir about the Hardin ranch. Philo Marsh and a low-browed, greasy
looking man, whom the lawyer introduced as ÅgJedge BiggsÅh--a Justice of
the Peace and Notary Public--arrived early in the day.

The girls were by now deeply interested in the matter of the
water-rights. The boys had ridden away as usual, right after breakfast.
Dorothy had told Tavia enough about Aunt WinnieÅfs difficulties to
arouse the black-eyed girlÅfs interest and to excite her over this
morning visit of Marsh.

The chums remained on the veranda, within hearing of the discussion in
the office, when Aunt Winnie appeared to meet the two men from Dugonne.

ÅgMawninÅf, Mrs. White,Åh said Philo Marsh, in his unctuous way. ÅgWeÅfre
all prepared this mawninÅf for business--loaded tuh the muzzle, as yuh
might say.Åh

ÅgI have sent for Mr. Jermyn,Åh said Aunt Winnie, quietly. ÅgI prefer to
have him here before I sign anything, Mr. Marsh.Åh

ÅgSufferinÅf snakes, MaÅfam! this ainÅft another hold-up, I hope? Why, ye
agreed tuh sign----Åh

ÅgQuite so. When Mr. Jermyn comes, if he does not advise against it, I
will sign.Åh

ÅgBut, Mrs. White! I have reason to know Jermyn is not in Dugonne at
present.Åh

ÅgThat is too bad,Åh said Mrs. White, with real disappointment. ÅgI
thought it strange that he returned no reply to the note I sent him
last evening.Åh

It was not strange to Philo Marsh, but he gave no sign that he had ever
heard of the message.

ÅgIt seems a pity to hold the matter up again, Mr. Marsh,Åh said Aunt
Winnie, calmly. ÅgBut I feel that my lawyer should have an opportunity
to advise.Åh

ÅgMrs. White!Åh cried Philo Marsh, his wrath getting the better of his
judgment, Ågthis is childish. ItÅfs a joke for you, perhaps, but not for
me. You promised----Åh

ÅgMr. Marsh!Åh exclaimed Aunt Winnie. ÅgI am not in the habit of being
spoken to in such a tone.Åh

She rose and passed to the door, leaving the two men standing, scowling
at each other.

ÅgI am sorry for your disappointment, Mr. Marsh,Åh proceeded the lady,
Ågbut I can no longer discuss this matter--or go on with it at
all--until I secure the advice of Mr. Jermyn. Good morning.Åh

ÅgBully for Aunt Winnie!Åh whispered Tavia, on the porch, squeezing
DorothyÅfs arm.

ÅgBut I am afraid of what Philo Marsh will do,Åh returned Dorothy, in a
similar tone. ÅgHe looks like a thunder-cloud.Åh

Mrs. White had swept from the office, and the two men finally came out.
They did not notice the girls, and went off whispering together. A
little later they rode away from the ranch sheds, but did not take the
trail to Dugonne.

Ned and Nat had told the girls that some yearlings were to be branded
that morning, down in the far corral, and Dorothy and Tavia wanted to
see the work done--although they shrank from the idea of giving pain to
the helpless cattle.

ÅgBut I suppose that is the only way to keep run of the stock,Åh Dorothy
said, wisely.

ÅgThey couldnÅft very well paste numbers on their horns,Åh rejoined Tavia,
whimsically.

When they told Aunt Winnie they were going, they found her looking very
grave, and she confessed to a headache. She suffered severely from that
affliction at times and she said the glare of the sun outside oppressed
her.

Dorothy knew that nervousness, enhanced by the argument with Philo
Marsh, was the real cause of her auntÅfs illness. She offered to remain
at the house, but Aunt Winnie sent her out with Tavia.

ÅgGo along and have a good time, child,Åh she said. ÅgI shall be all right
alone here.Åh

For at this time of day there was not a soul else about the big house.
Mrs. Ledger and Flores were busy at their own quarters.

It was an hour later--after retiring in bad order because of the odor
of burning hair and flesh in their nostrils, and the sound of piteous
bawling in their ears--that the two girls approached the ranch-house.
The branding operations had been too much for their courage.

ÅgI donÅft want to be a Åecattle queen,ÅfÅh Tavia declared, with a shudder.
ÅgOne of those poor calves had blue eyes and he looked at me so pitiful!Åh

ÅgYet you have no tender feeling for the poor humans you plague--like
Lance Petterby,Åh chuckled Dorothy.

ÅgOh! they are fair game!Åh said Tavia, shaking her braids and running on
before.

Suddenly--right at the corner of the house--she halted, and wildly
beckoned Dorothy forward.

ÅgLook! oh, look, Doro!Åh she gasped, as her friend came running.

Tavia, breathless, pointed off toward the west. A party of at least
six horsemen were riding at a gallop away from the front of the
ranch-house.

ÅgPhilo Marsh!Åh cried Dorothy. ÅgI see him.Åh

ÅgThere is a woman with them--she is riding in the middle of the crowd,Åh
screamed Tavia. ÅgOh, Doro! sheÅfs a prisoner! HeÅfs carried her off.Åh

ÅgWhoÅfs carried whom off?Åh demanded the startled Dorothy, as the
cavalcade disappeared into a coulie.

ÅgYour aunt! Philo Marsh has her. HeÅfs kidnapped her--to make her sign
those papers--I _know_ he has,Åh cried Tavia, weakly sitting down on the
steps.

ÅgNonsense!Åh exclaimed Dorothy, and ran into the house to find her aunt.

But she could not find her. She called, and there came no answer. With
fast beating heart and trembling limbs Dorothy Dale returned to the
veranda. Tavia was talking to a man on horseback who had just arrived.
It was Lance Petterby.




CHAPTER XXIV

THE CHASE


ÅgI tell you theyÅfve run away with her! Whatever shall we do?Åh

Tavia was quite familiar in her excitement. She had seized Lance
PetterbyÅfs free hand and shook it with emphasis. But even at this
tragic moment Dorothy noticed the way the cowpuncher looked down at her
chum, and she was sorry that Tavia was not more dignified.

ÅgJerusha Juniper! do yuh mean it?Åh Lance said.

ÅgWe saw them riding away,Åh declared Tavia. ÅgYou _didnÅft_ find your
aunt, did you, Doro?Åh

ÅgSheÅfs gone,Åh admitted Dorothy, feeling a little ill and faint.

ÅgJerusha Juniper! yuh donÅft mean it?Åh repeated Lance. ÅgÅfTainÅft possible
that sheÅfs been run off against her will?Åh

ÅgItÅfs that awful Philo Marsh,Åh said Tavia. ÅgYou donÅft understand.
She had promised to sign the papers for him this morning, and then
she heard something, so she wouldnÅft. He was here with a man named
Biggs----Åh

ÅgI know the scamp,Åh growled Lance.

ÅgWell! they were just as _mad_!Åh pursued Tavia.

ÅgSo Philo has shown his hand, has he?Åh said Lance Petterby, slowly.
ÅgThe ornery cur! I come over here to tell yuh aunt more thet I heard
last night. PhiloÅfs been workinÅf for the mining company all the time.Åh

ÅgDonÅft stop here talking!Åh urged Tavia. ÅgWe must go after them. Doro
and I will get our ponies.Åh

ÅgAinÅft Hank here?Åh demanded Lance.

ÅgMr. Ledger has gone to see about something at the other end of the
range,Åh Dorothy said, in answer to this question.

ÅgBut thereÅfs some of the Greasers here--and them boys?Åh

ÅgOh, yes!Åh cried Dorothy, and she told him where they were at work down
in the branding pen.

ÅgWeÅfd better go,Åh admitted the cowboy. ÅgI understand there is going to
be something doing up in the hills this very day.Åh

ÅgWhat do you mean, Mr. Lance?Åh cried Dorothy.

ÅgThem mininÅf people have got a gang to put in a few dynamite caÅftridges
where theyÅfll do the most good--for _them_. They intend to blow out
enough rock at the head of that gorge you seen the surveyors working
in, to drain the current of Lost River out of its bed.Åh

ÅgOh! the wicked things!Åh gasped Tavia.

ÅgYou donÅft mean it?Åh was DorothyÅfs comment.

ÅgSo it was give to me, Miss Dale,Åh said Lance. ÅgThem surveyors was
workinÅf for the Consolidated Ackron Company. I got it from the feller
that kerried the chain.Åh

ÅgWe saw him,Åh interrupted Tavia. ÅgA bushy whiskered man.Åh

ÅgGil Patrick. ThatÅfs him,Åh said Lance, with emphasis. ÅgWhen I got the
straight tip I reckoned you folks oughter know it. For once let them
mining people turn the river their way (they kin get it to their works
a sight easier than the Desert City folks kin handle it) and yuh aunt
would have a stiff fight on her hands in the courts. Possession is all
of nine pÅfints of the law--specially in water-rights,Åh added Lance,
nodding vigorously.

ÅgThey must be very wicked men,Åh said Dorothy, Ågto wish to rob the poor
farmers down there in the desert of water. And they will be robbing us,
too.Åh

ÅgI expect theyÅfll settle at a fair price--only yuh aunt wonÅft git Lost
River back intuh its banks--no, sir!Åh

[Illustration: THEY KEPT UP WITH THE WILD RIDING MEXICANS. _Dorothy Dale
in the West Page 223_]

ÅgIt must not be,Åh declared Dorothy Dale, vigorously. ÅgAnd if they have
made auntie ride over to that place with them----Åh

ÅgThey have kidnapped her, I tell you!Åh cried Tavia, her excitement
growing.

ÅgI kyanÅft believe it, gals,Åh said Lance Petterby. ÅgBut IÅfll rout out
yuh hands.Åh

ÅgAnd weÅfll get our ponies. Come, Doro,Åh added Tavia, starting on a run
for the horse corral.

ÅgSorry Hank ainÅft here,Åh said Lance, as he gave Gaby the rein. ÅgBut
IÅfll git the hull bunch yuh say is down there to the brandinÅf pen.Åh

ÅgOh, come on, Doro! Come on!Åh shouted Tavia, over her shoulder. ÅgWe
must go with them. It will be a regular cowboy chase--just like we see
in the movies.Åh

ÅgOh, Tavia! do be sensible.Åh

ÅgHow can I be? Your auntie is kidnapped. TheyÅfll try to make her sign
the paper----Åh

Somehow Dorothy felt that this sounded awfully melodramatic. And Tavia
was bubbling over with excitement. It did not seem to Dorothy as though
Aunt Winnie could really have been carried off by a band of outlaws in
the employ of the big mining corporation. It ÅgdidnÅft sound sensible.Åh

But the story that men in the employ of the corporation were to blow
out the bank of the river and turn the water into a new channel toward
the north, instead of toward the south, impressed the girl as being
eminently practical. And this dastardly scheme must be stopped.

Flores was not on hand to help the girls catch and saddle their ponies,
but by this time Dorothy and Tavia had made such friends and pets of
their mounts that the ponies trotted right up to the corral gate the
moment they saw the girls.

ÅgHurry! hurry!Åh gasped Tavia, pulling up the cinch with trembling
fingers. Åg_Do_ stand still Baby! I am so excited--Doro! isnÅft it
romantic----Åh

ÅgStop!Åh commanded her friend. ÅgYouÅfve worked that phrase to death,
Tavia Travers, since you started West. If you say it again before
Auntie is found IÅfll--IÅfll spank you.Åh

Lance came sweeping up from the distant corral as soon as the girls
were ready, bringing with him Ned and Nat White and all the Mexicans on
the job. There was one fellow missing who should have been there. That
was the man who had carried the message to Dugonne the night before for
Mrs. White.

But the pursuing party knew nothing of his treachery at this time. It
was merely remarked by the boys that the fellow had slipped away from
the work at the branding pen just before the girls themselves started
back to the ranch-house.

Naturally Ned and Nat were quite as excited over the report of their
motherÅfs disappearance as Tavia herself had been. The girls pointed out
the way in which the cavalcade they had seen disappeared, and without
going near the big house again the party, all mounted on fresh ponies,
drove straight away across the range toward the hills.

ÅgWe ainÅft goinÅf tuh do no trailinÅf,Åh said Lance, as they started. ÅgWe
kin pretty nigh guess whar they air aiminÅf for. ThatÅfs the place where
they mean to blow up the river bank, and weÅfll take a crow-line for it.Åh

There was not much said after they started--not for the first ten
miles, at least. The horses were eager, the Mexicans excited, Lance
grim, and Ned and Nat both mad and worried. Tavia was really the only
rider who thoroughly enjoyed the race.

Her eyes were brighter than ever; her hair was flying; she was hatless,
of course; and altogether she appeared to be in the spirit of the chase.

Up hill and down they dashed, the tireless ponies skimming the ground,
it seemed. Had the girls not been in the saddle so much during the
weeks they had been at Hardin, they certainly would have been shaken
off the poniesÅf backs now.

But their mounts were sound and eager, and they kept up with the wild
riding Mexicans. There was no yelling, or whooping, as they rode;
nevertheless the whole cavalcade was in earnest.

Dorothy was very anxious. She could not really believe that Aunt Winnie
had been carried off against her will by Philo Marsh and his crew, yet
she could not understand why the lady should have gone of her own free
will, either! She surely would have let the girls know before starting.
And she was not even riding one of the Hardin horses.

Ned and Nat threatened condign punishment for Philo Marsh when they
caught him. When the pursuers overtook the party ahead there was likely
to be trouble, and that thought increased Dorothy DaleÅfs anxiety.

On and on they rode, perhaps not following the same trail as the party
which they pursued; but they were going quite as directly into the
hills (and to the head of that gorge where the girls had seen the
surveyors at work) as were Philo Marsh and his companions. Indeed, the
Mexicans with Dorothy knew the way more definitely; so the pursuers
might arrive at the goal first.




CHAPTER XXV

A LITTLE MORE EXCITEMENT


The party Dorothy Dale and her companions were following into the
wilder section of the great Hardin Ranch, had almost an hourÅfs start
of their pursuers. If they were ignorant of such pursuit they might
not ride at top speed; therefore the pace set by Lance Petterby on his
pony, Gaby, must bring the pursuers to the river at about the time
Philo Marsh struck it. Only Dorothy and her friends were bound to
strike the stream higher up and nearer the point where Lance believed
the dynamite was to be used by the men working for the big mining
corporation.

The puzzle was how Philo Marsh and his crowd could have traveled as
fast as they did, with Mrs. White in the party. Aunt Winnie was a
cautious rider and the boys and Dorothy were ever complaining of her
slowness when they were all out on the range together.

But when the pursuers chanced to cross the trail of the cavalcade they
pursued, the hoofmarks of the ponies showed that they were traveling
fast.

ÅgGoodness!Åh exclaimed Nat. ÅgShe never would ride with us faster than a
toad funeral.Åh

ÅgThat shows she is forced to keep up with them,Åh Tavia declared, with
conviction.

ÅgDonÅft talk about it!Åh groaned Dorothy. ÅgI only hope those awful men
can be punished for this.Åh

ÅgDonÅft you fret, Miss Dale,Åh broke in Lance Petterby, grimly. ÅgIf Philo
has offered Mrs. White any indignity I dunno but heÅfll be hung for it.
The boysÅfll be mighty sore--believe me!Åh

Åg_That_ would be dreadful, too,Åh sighed Dorothy.

ÅgServe him just right, I say!Åh said Tavia, shortly.

This conversation had been carried on while they were mounting the
steep rise to the plateau formerly described. In ten minutes they were
at the river bank. The ground was of such a nature here that at a
casual glance one could not tell whether horsemen had recently passed,
going up stream, or not.

ÅgCome on!Åh commanded Lance, waving his hat. ÅgWhether them hombres is
thar, or not, weÅfll pull a hot finish.Åh

The ponies dashed on, following Gaby, as though perfectly fresh. They
thundered on up the very narrow trail the girls had followed that day
they had climbed to the mountain-top.

Suddenly, in a wide opening of the forest-clad plateau, they caught
sight of a number of horsemen ahead. It was Marsh and his companions,
but they got out of sight so quickly that Dorothy could not be sure
that Aunt Winnie was with them.

The cowboys broke into yells of excitement. The ponies dashed forward,
and whether the girls would, or no, they were borne at a desperate pace
right up the trail after the other flying squadron of horses.

ÅgIsnÅft it great?Åh yelled Tavia, as she rode knee to knee with Dorothy.

ÅgI think it is dreadful,Åh gasped Dorothy.

But Tavia seemed to be enjoying the race to the full. And it _was_ a
race now. Philo Marsh had seen them coming, and without doubt he would
try to do what he had to do, and get it over with, before the pursuers
overtook him.

If the dynamite was ready set, and he could explode it before the
pursuers reached the spot, nothing could put Lost River back into its
course again.

Again and again Dorothy and her companions came in sight of the party
ahead, but the glimpses they obtained were for a moment only.

ÅgTheyÅfve got some hoss-flesh thar,Åh commented Lance Petterby. ÅgAnd they
warnÅft as fresh in the beginninÅf as ourn--thatÅfs sartain. They been
punishinÅf of Åfem some, by Jerusha Juniper!Åh

ÅgI--donÅft--see--how--Aunt--ie--can ride so fast!Åh stammered Dorothy.

ÅgShe never did before,Åh repeated Nat.

The pursuers had not lost hope. The trail over the plateau was twisted,
but almost level. Their horses seemed quite as willing as when they had
started from the ranch-house.

They dashed up the little rise beside the noisy rapids and then the
prospect opened before them for some two miles. Philo Marsh and his
crowd were just ahead. The pursuers could see them quite plainly.

Lance began to yell and beat his pony with his hat. The MexicansÅf yelps
were as shrill as a dogÅfs howl. The boys and Tavia were caught up by
the excitement, and they shouted, too, but Dorothy remained silent.

She searched the cavalcade ahead for a glimpse of her auntÅfs figure.
There _was_ a female in the crowd; but, was it Aunt Winnie?

Surely, that good lady could never have ridden with such abandon--not
even if she had been lashed to her saddle! And this person ahead wore
garments of much more brilliant color than Aunt Winnie had ever been
known to put on.

ÅgThat never in the world is Auntie!Åh cried Dorothy, at last.

Tavia heard her, and flashed her chum a broad smile. Then Tavia urged
her horse on, shouting as the boys shouted.

ÅgYou knew it all the time, Tavia Travers!Åh screamed Dorothy, in anger.

She crowded her own pony close to TaviaÅfs mount and shook that
irrepressible young person by the arm. Tavia would pay no attention to
her. The end of the race promised to be exciting, and TaviaÅfs attention
would not be coaxed aside.

They were in sight of the head of the gorge. The men in the lead began
to yell. Evidently they expected to find some of their own kind here.

One of the Mexicans in the party of pursuit whipped a long-barreled
revolver into sight. The herdsmen of Hardin Ranch were not supposed to
carry weapons save at night when riding herd. Lance Petterby saw the
gun and yelled at his follower:

ÅgPut away that gat.! IÅfll natcherÅfly manhandle any feller that fires a
gun.Åh

The next moment Ned White uttered a shout. ÅgHi! thatÅfs not mother with
those fellows. ItÅfs--itÅfs that Mexican girl, Flores!Åh

Only a hundred yards separated the two parties. The girl who had ridden
in the midst of the leading crew, suddenly swung her pony to one side,
wheeled him about, and dashed back toward Dorothy and her friends.

ÅgFlores! Flores!Åh cried Dorothy.

ÅgThey blow up! They blow up! Dynamite!Åh shrieked Flores, waving her
arms excitedly and letting her pony take his course.

Some of the Mexicans held in their ponies. At the warning more than one
desired to keep out of the danger zone. But Lance Petterby drove on,
yelling:

ÅgNot much they wonÅft set off no dynamite. They ainÅft gwine tuh be
_let_.Åh

Without doubt he would have flung himself the next minute, single
handed, upon the half dozen scoundrels had there not occurred something
quite unexpected. Philo Marsh and his henchmen had leaped from their
horses. They were almost at the head of the gorge. The rock between
where the ground fell away into the chasm, and the brink of the rushing
river, was narrow. It was plain to be seen that a properly set blast
must open a gap into the bank of the river and turn the latterÅfs course.

Once changed into this gorge which led to the north, it would be very
difficult to shut off the flow of water from the new channel.

Just as Lance was about to throw himself upon the men working for the
mining company, a figure lounged into view before the party. It was
that of a tall, slouching man, and he was heavily and prominently
armed, having a brace of pistols slung about his body outside his
coat. He was smoking a pipe.

ÅgHank Ledger!Åh ejaculated Philo Marsh.

ÅgYep,Åh drawled the foreman of the Hardin Ranch. ÅgI run off your two
friends this mawninÅf. TheyÅfd got them holes drilled and the dynamite
sticks set. All they waited for was that Åflectric battery you got thar
in that thar leetle box, Philo.

ÅgBut it ainÅft no go. IÅfve extracted them dynamite sticks anÅf they
air soakinÅf in the river right now. I tolÅf yuh tuh let Miz White
erlone. SheÅfs er mighty able lady and I donÅft kalkerlate tuh let no
squirrel-faced, bald-headed feller, with a dyed mustache, interfere
with her consarns. DÅfye get me?Åh

Lance Petterby led the cheering as the party from the Hardin Ranch
reached the scene and heard the foremanÅfs words. Lance rode right up to
PhiloÅfs pony and knocked the electric battery off the saddle-bow, and
the box was smashed on the ground.

ÅgWhat you doinÅf, Petterby?Åh yelled Marsh.

Lance leaned from his saddle and wagged a finger under the villainÅfs
nose. ÅgGimme another word and IÅfll smash you like I done your play-toy
yonder. IÅfm achinÅf tuh leave my mark on yuh,Åh whispered Lance, so that
the girls could not hear him--or, he thought they could not.

ÅgIsnÅft he splendid?Åh cried Tavia to Dorothy. ÅgLance is a regular
story-book hero.Åh

But Dorothy wanted to hear FloresÅf story. ÅgHow did you come to be with
those men, Flores?Åh she asked the Mexican girl.

ÅgOh, Se?orita! I know--I see--I no can spÅfak da Inglese well, you know,
Se?orita. I know dey come here to blow up de river. I run to de beeg
house to tell. Dey ketch me--makÅf me ride witÅf dhem----Åh

ÅgWe get you, Flores,Åh said Lance, quickly. Then he said something to
the Mexicans in their own tongue and the fellows exchanged fierce
glances and scowled at Philo Marsh, who sneaked away from their
vicinity in quick retreat.

Flores was in tears; but Tavia was still widely smiling. ÅgOh, dear!Åh
she sighed. ÅgWasnÅft it fun, Doro--as long as it lasted? I never do
expect to have such a ride again. It was just like one of those moving
picture chases we used to see.Åh

ÅgTavia Travers!Åh exclaimed Dorothy. ÅgI believe you knew all the time
that it wasnÅft Aunt Winnie these men had carried off.Åh

ÅgWell! you might have seen all the colors of the rainbow in her frock,
too, before they first rode out of sight,Åh said Tavia, her eyes
wickedly dancing. ÅgI never saw Mrs. White sporting very gay colors, my
dear.Åh

Åg_But where is Auntie?_Åh

ÅgShe went to lie down, you remember, before ever we went down to
see them burn those poor little calves,Åh Tavia replied. ÅgShe had a
headache. Like enough she fell asleep and did not hear us when we came
back. You called only once for her.Åh

If never before, Dorothy Dale felt a measure of exasperation at Tavia
which came near causing a falling-out between them. And yet, when
Dorothy stopped to think, she realized that she was at fault in that
she had not searched properly for Aunt Winnie before starting upon this
wild-goose chase.

Then she heard what Nat was saying to Tavia. Nat could always find
something to praise in the latter young personÅfs conduct, no matter
what she did:

ÅgSay, Tavia! if you hadnÅft started this riot about mother being
kidnapped, Hank would have had to face this gang alone. Maybe they
would have _got_ him. YouÅfre all right, Tavia!Åh

ÅgThanks, Monsieur!Åh responded the elfish Tavia, bowing.

ÅgAnd no knowing what Philo Marsh would have done, had his crowd been in
the majority,Åh growled Ned, from the other side of the girls. ÅgHe looks
ugly enough right now to chew nails.Åh

But Mr. Marsh had come to the end of his rope. He and his friends
conferred together for only a few moments and then rode slowly away.

ÅgBut they may be back with more dynamite, if this place isnÅft watched,Åh
said Ned. ÅgHow about it, Mr. Ledger?Åh

ÅgThe boyÅfs right,Åh said Lance. ÅgPhilo is a regular snake in the grass.Åh

ÅgThatÅfs what John Dempsey calls him,Åh said Tavia to Dorothy; but
Dorothy would not speak to her chum just then, for she still felt
aggrieved.

ÅgWhat yuh want,Åh said Lance to Hank Ledger, Ågis somebody tuh patrol
this here river till them Desert City people sign up anÅf take charge of
things--if Miz White is goinÅf tuh let Åfem have the water.Åh

ÅgThemÅfs the fellers thatÅfs goinÅf to git it,Åh agreed Hank. ÅgShe told
me so. And you air right, Lance--you beinÅf the man for the job. IÅfll
speak to Miz White about it--if yuhÅfll sign on. Sixty a month anÅf
found--betterÅfn youÅfre gittinÅf now, old boy.Åh

ÅgIÅfm on,Åh agreed the cowpuncher, looking at the two girls slily. But
Dorothy saw the glance, and she was again disturbed. ÅgI got tired of
eatinÅf that ChinkÅfs cookinÅf over at the Double Chain Outfit, anyhow.
BÅfsides, I believe I kin git my old lady tuh stay out yere with me for
a spell, anÅf IÅfll need a raise in wages, Hank.Åh

They left him there on guard and rode back to the ranch-house. Aunt
Winnie was placidly knitting on the veranda, for Mrs. Ledger had
assured her that her sons and the two girls had ridden off in company
with Lance Petterby and the Mexicans.

But she _was_ excited when she received the report of what had been
done over by Lost River. The way Philo Marsh and his henchmen had
treated Flores could not be overlooked.

Mrs. White wrote to Mr. Jermyn again and this time the lawyer received
the letter. He drove out the next day to the ranch, and after hearing
the particulars of PhiloÅfs attempted raid upon the Lost River water
supply, he advised a settlement of the whole affair to be made at once.

It was discovered that Marsh had circulated the report in Desert
City and among the dry-farmers that the new owners of Colonel
HardinÅfs property had already agreed to sell the water-rights to the
Consolidated Ackron Company. As soon as it was made known to the cityÅfs
council that Mrs. White stood ready to carry out the dead ColonelÅfs
tentative agreement, the city fathers and the farmers came forward
with a proposition and a bond that Lawyer Jermyn advised Mrs. White to
accept.




CHAPTER XXVI

SAYING GOOD-BYE ALL AROUND


ÅgHe must be dreadfully lonesome over there,Åh said Tavia, with a sigh,
staring out of the window.

Dorothy was counting her handkerchiefs preparatory to storing away
those she would not need on the return journey, in the tray of her
trunk.

ÅgForty-five, forty-six, forty-seven----Tavia! I canÅft find that
forty-eighth handkerchief. I know I had four dozen when we started from
North Birchlands. Where----Åh

  ÅgThere were forty and seven that safely lay
   In the shelter of the trunk,Åh

wailed Tavia. ÅgMaybe even _you_, my dear Doro, could mislay a
handkerchief.Åh

ÅgNo. I most always never do. You know that, Tavia.Åh

TaviaÅfs interest in the missing handkerchief failed. ÅgI wonder if heÅfs
thinking of us,Åh she said.

ÅgI couldnÅft have dropped it anywhere----Åh

ÅgWhy! if I had forty-seven handkerchiefs all at once--or even seven--I
wouldnÅft worry my head over a single, measly little one. Maybe one of
the boys is keeping it for you, Doro.Åh

ÅgNonsense!Åh

ÅgFor a keepsake, you know. Lance borrowed one of mine and IÅfll never
see it again, I sÅfpose.Åh

ÅgWhy, Tavia! donÅft let Aunt Winnie hear of it.Åh

ÅgOh, pooh!Åh said the irresponsible girl, shrugging her shoulders.
ÅgWhatÅfs a handkerchief?Åh

ÅgBut mine were all good ones,Åh complained Dorothy.

ÅgGood or cheap, I wouldnÅft trouble my head about them.Åh

ÅgThatÅfs why you have so few,Åh accused Dorothy.

ÅgOh, fudge!Åh quoth Tavia, turning to the window again. ÅgIt must be
terrible wearisome to be alone in the wilderness.Åh

ÅgWhatever are you talking about?Åh snapped Dorothy, at last awaking to
the fact that TaviaÅfs mind was engaged in a mysterious line of thought.

ÅgWhy--poor Lance,Åh replied Tavia, in a most soulful tone of voice.

ÅgTavia Travers!Åh gasped Dorothy. ÅgWonÅft you _ever_ let that poor fellow
alone?Åh

ÅgThatÅfs exactly it,Åh said Tavia. ÅgHe is all, all alone, Åfway up there
in the woods, watching that river flow by. IsnÅft it awful?Åh

ÅgDo behave!Åh snapped Dorothy. ÅgHeÅfs well out of your way----Åh

ÅgBut he doesnÅft think so, I am sure. Even his mother says IÅfm a
Åemonstrous interesting gal.ÅfÅh

For Mrs. Petterby had come over to the Hardin Ranch again by Mrs.
WhiteÅfs express invitation. The little old lady from RandÅfs Falls,
Massachusetts, was actually getting cured of her prejudices against the
West.

ÅgAnd Ophelia seems contented,Åh said she. ÅgI got ter admit that thereÅfs
some things about Colorado I like. I never _did_ eat sech melons. AnÅf
the skyÅfs bluer than I ever see it before.

ÅgMy baby says I got ter stay out here and keep house for him--though
heÅfs off in them hills now and his home mightÅfs well be an Injun
wigwam.Åh

Mrs. Petterby agreed, however, to be housekeeper and caretaker of the
ranch-house. Lance was going to stay on with the Hardin outfit, and his
mother was a spry old lady and was glad of the position Aunt Winnie
offered her.

ÅgFor we shall be coming out here often,Åh declared Mrs. White. ÅgI know
my brother, Major Dale, will like it immensely, once heÅfs well enough
to visit the ranch. And the young folk are quite crazy over it.Åh

Ned was determined to go into the cattle business and stock
raising--when he was out of college.

ÅgWhatÅfs the use of boning at books, then?Åh demanded Nat. ÅgÅeAll Gaul is
divided into three partsÅf isnÅft going to help you raise longhorns for
the market.Åh

ÅgHow do you know?Åh asked his brother, coolly. ÅgAnd the cattle business
will be a sideline.Åh

When old Mrs. Petterby took hold of affairs at the big house Aunt
Winnie began to have a better time. ÅgHelpÅh was hard to get in that
region and Mrs. White and the girls had done all but the kitchen work
since coming to the ranch.

Now she had time to ride with Dorothy and Tavia as far as Desert
City, and meet the men who were going to make possible the great
transformation scene in that part of the desert that was to be
irrigated with the water from Lost River.

Dorothy and Tavia enjoyed these jaunts immensely, too, but in between
they had found time to ride up into the hills occasionally to see the
tall young cowpuncher who guarded the river. Tavia _would_ go, and
Dorothy did not propose to let her go alone.

That was what Tavia was hinting at on the morning of the trunk packing
incident. The following afternoon they were to ride into Dugonne,
taking train next morning for the East.

ÅgWell, IÅfll go,Åh said Dorothy, rather displeased it must be confessed.
ÅgBut I wish weÅfd never seen Lance Petterby--that I do!Åh

ÅgWhy, Dorothy Doolittle Doodlebug! how you talk,Åh cried the
innocent-eyed Tavia. ÅgAnd heÅfs been _such_ fun! Why, without Lance
my trip out here to the Åewild and woollyÅf would have been without a
particle of savor. And IÅfm going to send him a necktie for a Christmas
present. Going to knit it myself.Åh

ÅgIf Nat heard you say that, he would observe, ÅeYes, you are--_nit_!ÅfÅh
chuckled Dorothy. ÅgAnd Lance never wears a necktie. A red handkerchief
around his neck, and tied behind, is _his_ limit.Åh

A little later, in their chic riding habits, the girls ran down to the
corrals. The Mexican girl appeared from the Ledger shack to attend them.

ÅgFlores is such a nice little thing,Åh Tavia said to Dorothy as Flores
caught and bridled the second pony. ÅgDonÅft you wish she was going back
East with us?Åh

ÅgPerhaps she wouldnÅft be happy there,Åh replied Dorothy. ÅgMrs. Petterby
is going to take her in hand and--so the old lady says--going to make a
thorough New England housewife of her.Åh

ÅgAnd I wager you put her up to it,Åh retorted Tavia. ÅgWhy is it, Doro,
that you are forever thinking of other people, and doing things for
them?Åh

ÅgNonsense!Åh said Dorothy, blushing. ÅgFlores ought to have a better
chance.Åh

ÅgOh, Mees!Åh cried the pretty, dark skinned girl, as she brought the
second pony up to the gate. ÅgI am so verÅf sorree dhat you go Åfway. We
shall be l-l-lonely here witÅfout you. See! I soon dhe Ingleesh spÅfak
nice--no?Åh

ÅgItÅfs fine, Flores,Åh declared Tavia, laughing. ÅgWho has taught you so
much?Åh

The glowing eyes of the Mexican girl rested on DorothyÅfs face. Åg_She_
teach me, Mees. She is so good!Åh

For some reason Tavia grew suddenly serious. At least, she did not tell
a joke or say a whimsical thing till they had ridden more than ten
miles over the now well-beaten trail to Lost River.

ÅgDoro Doodledum!Åh exclaimed the irrepressible, suddenly. ÅgDo you know
what you are?Åh

ÅgYes, MaÅfam. American; white; single; age--not stated; no political
preferences, although leaning toward the suffragettes; attend the
Congregational church----Åh

ÅgHow smart! But you are something else,Åh declared Tavia, still quite
serious of countenance.

ÅgSure! A graduate of Glenwood School. Oh, Tavia! how I wish Ned Ebony,
and Cologne, and half a dozen of the other girls, were here. WouldnÅft
we have had fun?Åh

ÅgYes. But that is another story----Åh

ÅgItÅfs the truth!Åh

ÅgHa! you do not know your Kipling,Åh cried Tavia. ÅgBut never mind.
The point is, Doro, that I have come to the conclusion that you are
something more than human.Åh

Dorothy looked at her in amazement. ÅgHow you talk! What is the joke?Åh

ÅgIt is no joke. Seriously,Åh said Tavia. ÅgYou see, Doro, I have been
thinking, and more deeply than you would believe.Åh

ÅgDonÅft do it,Åh laughed Dorothy. ÅgIt might grow upon you. Then you would
no longer be Terrible Tavia, thoughtlessly threading her way through
the thistles of this terrestrial life.Åh

ÅgGoodness!Åh exclaimed her chum. ÅgThat must have hurt you.Åh

ÅgNot much, but it was a strain,Åh confessed Dorothy.

ÅgNow! listen to me,Åh commanded her chum. ÅgI have been thinking it out.
You are forever helping people, Doro, while I go along having a good
time myself, and never thinking of a living soul but myself.Åh

ÅgWhy, Tavia! that is not so,Åh Dorothy said, gravely.

ÅgOh, yes, it is. DonÅft contradict. Look at this trip. You began
helping people almost as soon as we started. There was old Lady
Petterby.Åh

ÅgFor pityÅfs sake! what did I do for her?Åh demanded Dorothy, in honest
amazement.

ÅgYou put yourself out to make her comfortable.Åh

ÅgI did not.Åh

ÅgThen you picked up old John Dempsey,Åh went on Tavia, accusingly. ÅgYou
have given that old boy a new lease of life, Doro.Åh

ÅgDonÅft be ridiculous,Åh said her friend. ÅgAnybody would have done the
same. And it was really Aunt Winnie who helped him.Åh

ÅgSheÅfd never have heard of John Dempsey if it hadnÅft been for you,Åh
said Tavia. ÅgThen there is Flores. It never entered _my_ head to try
to teach her English. Why? Because all I can do--all I think of--is to
have a good time. I never thought of helping Lance Petterby, even,Åh and
she wickedly grinned again. ÅgIÅfve just been having fun with him.Åh

ÅgAnd thank goodness! thatÅfs got to stop now,Åh said Dorothy, with
confidence.

ÅgYou are super-human, Doro,Åh pursued Tavia, shaking her head. ÅgWhile
I--well, IÅfm just an animal, I guess--a Åefeatherless biped.Åf Of course,
I have tastes similar to yours and other humans; but I donÅft use my
intellect as a real human being ought--not even as a Boston bean
should,Åh added Tavia, making one of her very worst puns.

ÅgYou display many traits common to the human family,Åh said Dorothy, her
eyes twinkling.

ÅgDonÅft I?Åh responded Tavia, briskly. ÅgThat reminds me of the little
girl to whom the teacher was explaining about the friendship certain
animals have for man.

ÅgÅeNow, do animals ever possess sentiment or affection?Åf she finally
asked the kid.

ÅgÅeYes, MaÅfam,Åf says the embryo.

ÅgÅeTell me,Åf says the teacher, Åewhat animal has the greatest affection
for man?Åf

ÅgAnd the kid knew. ÅeWoman!Åf she exclaims, very promptly. You can laugh!
I think I have _that_ human trait very well developed. I _am_ fond of
the boys. TheyÅfre lots more fun than girls--present company excepted,
of course, Doro. But IÅfm never thoughtful about others, and you are.Åh

ÅgSerious talk from Miss Flyaway Travers,Åh said Dorothy, lightly, yet
pleased that her chum should really display some gravity. ÅgDonÅft you
show too much fondness for Lance Petterby to-day--now mind!Åh

Tavia was lively and irresponsible enough when they came to the
cowpuncherÅfs camp. He had built a lean-to shelter and was comfortably
fixed--so he said. Once a week he was relieved for a day by one of
the Mexicans whom Hank could trust, and on that day Lance had always
appeared at the ranch-house.

ÅgWhy, ladies, I shore am glad tuh see yuh,Åh was the big cowpuncherÅfs
welcome.

ÅgI know,Åh said Tavia, nodding. ÅgIf you suffered from ophthalmia youÅfd
be cured.Åh

ÅgHuh? I reckon so,Åh agreed Lance, Ågthough I ainÅft jest next to that
ÅeopthmyÅf word.Åh

ÅgShe means if your eyes were inflamed the sight of us would cure them,Åh
explained Dorothy, smilingly.

ÅgAinÅft she the great little josher?Åh quoth Lance, admiringly. ÅgI never
see a gal like her.Åh

ÅgAnd you wonÅft want to again,Åh said Tavia, pertly. ÅgNow! confess.Åh

ÅgYuh got me there, Miss,Åh said Lance. ÅgOne of yuh at a time is jest
enough. Two like yuh would drive a man plumb distracted.Åh

ÅgYou will not be plagued by my presence for long, sir,Åh said Tavia,
making a little face at him. ÅgThis is a real good-bye visit. YouÅfll
probably never see me again, Mr. Lance.Åh

ÅgHold on, now! DonÅft say that,Åh cried the cowboy. ÅgYou folks will be
cominÅf out yere frequent. Miz White Says so.Åh

ÅgDorothy will,Åh replied Tavia. ÅgBut I may not. You see, I have to be
specially invited to come.Åh

ÅgI invite yuh right now,Åh said Lance, with emphasis. ÅgMe and my old
lady will be mighty glad to see yuh.Åh

ÅgI canÅft promise,Åh Tavia said.

ÅgLet a feller hear from yuh,Åh urged Lance, devouring her piquant face
with his bold eyes.

ÅgOh, yes! weÅfll write Mrs. Petterby,Åh agreed Tavia.

ÅgYou will surely hear from us,Åh interposed Dorothy, before Lance could
say any more. ÅgAnd weÅfll hear about you, too. Mr. Lance, you have been
very kind to us all and we never shall forget you.Åh

She shook hands with the cowboy and then hastened Tavia into the saddle
again. Lance evidently wished them to linger and tried to keep Tavia
engaged in conversation.

Slily Dorothy touched the flank of TaviaÅfs pony with her heel. The
nervous little beast sprang away--almost unseating its rider; but
the movement broke up any Ågprivate confabÅh between her chum and the
cowpuncher.

ÅgGood-bye, Mr. Lance!Åh cried Dorothy, spurring after Tavia.

Tavia was again her trifling self. She chuckled as they rode away.

ÅgPoor Lance! HeÅfll wake up some day. Hope it will be a real nice
ÅecowgirlÅf who gets him. Meanwhile weÅfll just slip back East, Dorothy,
leaving him nothing but fond recollections of us as he dreams over his
campfire at night.Åh

Aunt Winnie refused to send for the big stagecoach in which to ride
to town, so the young folk rode in the saddle to Dugonne the next
afternoon, where the ponies were left at a stable to be called for the
next time Hank Ledger had occasion to go to town. John Dempsey drove
Mrs. White in a single-seated buckboard.

Old John Dempsey had made a place for himself at the ranch and was to
be continued on the payroll. The veteranÅfs eyes overflowed when he bade
Dorothy Dale good-bye at the hotel.

ÅgYou was my salvation, Miss Dorothy, thatÅfs what you was,Åh he said. ÅgI
got a chance to live out oÅf doors anÅf work--and when I canÅft work I
hope the good LordÅfll take me away, Miss.Åh

ÅgThat will be many, many years hence, Mr. Dempsey,Åh cried Dorothy,
smiling.

He drove away, but half an hour afterward the bellhop came to Mrs.
WhiteÅfs suite and said that an old man wanted to see Dorothy. It was
John Dempsey. His wrinkled old face was twisted into a wry grin and
he thrust a handful of banknotes into the hand of the surprised girl
before he said a word.

ÅgI done it,Åh he cackled. ÅgDunno as IÅfd oughter; but that snake in the
grass insisted. I sold him the letter. When he finds out itÅfs only
a lithograph copy of the original letter Old Abe wrote to that poor
widder woman, heÅfll be hoppinÅf like a hen on a hot griddle, I reckon.
A hundred dollars he give me,Åh added John Dempsey, Ågand haÅff of it
belongs to you, Miss.Åh

ÅgNot a penny shall I take,Åh declared Dorothy. ÅgYou must put it all in
the bank against a rainy day, Mr. Dempsey.Åh

Dempsey then drove away, and the sight of his stooped shoulders as the
ponies turned the corner was the last glimpse Dorothy Dale had of the
Hardin Ranch folk for some time.

Ere she would see that great property again Dorothy was to have many
new adventures, and some of them will be related in ÅgDorothy DaleÅfs
Strange Discovery.Åh

Dugonne had faded from sight behind them when the girls went back to
the observation platform. The Great West was flying past them.

ÅgIt is a wonderfully interesting country,Åh said Dorothy, thoughtfully.
ÅgAnd the people--most of them--are awfully nice.Åh

ÅgPoor Lance!Åh sighed Tavia, in a most lugubrious tone; but she turned
her face away that Dorothy might not see her dancing eyes.


THE END




THE MOTOR GIRLS SERIES

By MARGARET PENROSE

Author of the highly successful ÅgDorothy Dale SeriesÅh

  12mo.  Illustrated.  Price per volume, 60 cents, postpaid.

[Illustration]

THE MOTOR GIRLS _or A Mystery of the Road_

  When Cora Kimball got her touring car she did not imagine so many
  adventures were in store for her. A tale all wide awake girls will
  appreciate.

THE MOTOR GIRLS ON A TOUR _or Keeping a Strange Promise_

  A great many things happen in this volume. A precious heirloom is
  missing, and how it was traced up is told with absorbing interest.

THE MOTOR GIRLS AT LOOKOUT BEACH _or In Quest of the Runaways_

  There was a great excitement when the Motor Girls decided to go to
  Lookout Beach for the summer.

THE MOTOR GIRLS THROUGH NEW ENGLAND _or Held by the Gypsies_

  A strong story and one which will make this series more popular than
  ever. The girls go on a motoring trip through New England.

THE MOTOR GIRLS ON CEDAR LAKE _or The Hermit of Fern Island_

  How Cora and her chums went camping on the lake shore and how they
  took trips in their motor boat, are told in a way all girls will
  enjoy.

THE MOTOR GIRLS ON THE COAST _or The Waif from the Sea_

  The scene is shifted to the sea coast where the girls pay a visit.
  They have their motor boat with them and go out for many good times.

THE MOTOR GIRLS ON CRYSTAL BAY _or The Secret of the Red Oar_

  More jolly times, on the water and at a cute little bungalow on the
  shore of the bay. A tale that will interest all girls.

THE MOTOR GIRLS ON WATERS BLUE _or The Strange Cruise of the Tartar_

  Before the girls started on a long cruise down to the West Indies,
  they fell in with a foreign girl and she informed them that her
  father was being held a political prisoner on one of the islands.
  A story that is full of fun as well as mystery.

  CUPPLES & LEON CO., Publishers, NEW YORK




RUTH FIELDING SERIES

By ALICE B. EMERSON

  12mo.  Illustrated.  Price per volume, 40 cents, postpaid.

[Illustration]

RUTH FIELDING OF THE RED MILL _or Jaspar ParloeÅfs Secret_

  Telling how Ruth, an orphan girl, came to live with her miserly
  uncle, and how the girlÅfs sunny disposition melted the old
  millerÅfs heart.

RUTH FIELDING AT BRIARWOOD HALL _or Solving the Campus Mystery_

  Ruth was sent by her uncle to boarding school. She made many
  friends, also one enemy, who made much trouble for her.

RUTH FIELDING AT SNOW CAMP _or Lost in the Backwoods_

  A thrilling tale of adventures in the backwoods in winter, is
  told in a manner to interest every girl.

RUTH FIELDING AT LIGHTHOUSE POINT _or Nita, the Girl Castaway_

  From boarding school the scene is shifted to the Atlantic Coast,
  where Ruth goes for a summer vacation with some chums.

RUTH FIELDING AT SILVER RANCH _or Schoolgirls Among the Cowboys_

  A story with a western flavor. How the girls came to the rescue
  of Bashful Ike, the cowboy, is told in a way that is most
  absorbing.

RUTH FIELDING ON CLIFF ISLAND _or The Old HunterÅfs Treasure Box_

  Ruth and her friends go to Cliff Island, and there have many good
  times during the winter season.

RUTH FIELDING AT SUNRISE FARM _or What Became of the Raby Orphans_

  Jolly good times at a farmhouse in the country, where Ruth
  rescues two orphan children who ran away.

RUTH FIELDING AND THE GYPSIES _or The Missing Pearl Necklace_

  This volume tells of stirring adventures at a Gypsy encampment,
  of a missing heirloom, and how Ruth has it restored to its owner.

  CUPPLES & LEON CO., Publishers, NEW YORK




TranscriberÅfs Note:

  Punctuation has been standardized. Spelling has been
  retained as it appears in the original publication
  except as follows:

  Page 34

    an ancient darky, with kinky _changed to_
    an ancient darkey, with kinky

  Page 141

    collectors woud give a round _changed to_
    collectors would give a round

  Page 161
    between the two men continud _changed to_
    between the two men continued

  Page 168

    rememberd seeing Philo Marsh speak _changed to_
    remembered seeing Philo Marsh speak

  Page 193

    but suopose this individual _changed to_
    but suppose this individual

  Page 198
    most wierd way _changed to_
    most weird way

  Page 217

    suffered severly from _changed to_
    suffered severely from

  Page 243

    quite serious of countetnance _changed to_
    quite serious of countenance





End of Project Gutenberg's Dorothy Dale in the West, by Margaret Penrose

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DOROTHY DALE IN THE WEST ***

***** This file should be named 54022-0.txt or 54022-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/4/0/2/54022/

Produced by Stephen Hutcheson, MFR and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
